Transpennine Trains Limited
Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2024

*ADCDNGOH*

f bana

y}

Transpennine Trains Limited
Contents

Company information ...........cccccessecesecsesecssssececssescsuececsesseecsssaseaeusanecessansseeseseesrasaceescesasessenteaseeeneasenensesaeseessasesensasseeenecenee 3
Strategic Report ....cc cece ceesccecsecsececsscssesecossecseeseseaseeasesesessaceusevsssaseesesasseeeesasssgeesaaeatesessenessssssnanaseeseasscrastdeaserenseene 4

Directors’ REPOFt 0... scecssecsecsssssesceseseesseeneansesessesescsusscesscenevessssersussesesucsrsscsesusansuesesesesssesensssssecisasessssessessiessesnesseeciaseensseeser 2

Independent Auditors Report ..
Income Statement... cscs cesescecsssessscsesssesssessscecesssersusssesasseassssesessesesasssessatcaseseesassnseasacscaascerecscscasesssasacaticeracisesseseesesss OL
Statement of Comprehensive Income................- ecsonesesvectonserssecsssvessssssuscessuneceesavecseseessssscensuesessuseessssseesnsnsesecensesesnneeeate 38
Staternent of Financial Position 2.00... ccc cece ec eeeecesee cece cece sesesescaeee se ceseeenessesesenesseseessevassasssasesenansssesesssassaeeeecaseeereesesieaes 39

Statement of Changes in Equity 0... eeecesenseececeseeeeeeeseceensaeereeeseseeeereeseseesesssce seas saessasssesnansessnasaessseeneas seg aeeseeseeesas 40

Notes to the Financial Statements .

2 of 63
Registered Address: 7" Floor, Bridgewater House, 58-60 Whitworth Street, Manchester, M1 6LT

y)

Transpennine Trains Limited

Company information

Company information for the year ended 31 March 2024

Directors:

Company Secretary:

Registered Office:

Registered Number:

Independent Auditors:

3 of 63

Registered Address: 7" Floor, Bridgewater House, 58-60 Whitworth Street, Manchester, M1 6LT

Robin Gisby

Richard Harrison

Darren Higgins

Carolann James

Christopher Jackson

es |

Charlanne Hodgkinson

Bridgewater House

58-60 Whitworth Street
Manchester

M1 6LT

12544930

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
Central Square

29 Wellington Street

Leeds

LS1 4DL

y)

Transpennine Trains Limited
Strategic Report

For the year ended 31 March 2024
STRATEGIC REPORT

The Directors, in preparing this Strategic Report for the year ended 31 March 2024, have complied with s414C of the
Companies Act 2006. Transpennine Trains Limited (the “Company” or “TransPennine Express”) is registered and domiciled
in England and Wales and is a 100% subsidiary of DFT OLR Holdings Limited (“the Group” or “DOHL”).

From 28 May 2023, TransPennine Express has operated as a publicly owned company through a Service Agreement awarded
by the Secretary of State for Transport succeeding First Transpennine Express Limited (“FTPE”). The service agreement runs
until 25 May 2025, with the Secretary of State for Transport having the option to extend for at least two years.

Prior to 28 May 2023, the Company was under the supervision of the Secretary of State for Transport as a dormant entity. The
balances for the comparative period are consequently those for a dormant entity.

REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS AND FUTURE DEVELOPMENTS

Overview
TransPennine Express's ambition is to deliver a premium travel experience — connecting communities across the North of
England and into Scotland — for its customers, its communities, its people, and its stakeholders.

TransPennine Express operates 19 stations and calls at more than 60 across its network. In the period from the franchise
transfer to year end, TransPennine Express carried around 20.2 million passenger journeys.

TransPennine Express employs over 2,500 people across the business — either directly or through partnerships with other
organisations in the North of England and into Scotland. The majority of these are in service delivery roles, with 1,802 in
TransPennine Express itself. This team represents a diverse range of people from different parts of the North of England and
Scotland, different backgrounds, ages, genders, ethnicities, sexual orientations, abilities, and religions.

TransPennine Express plays a pivotal role in enabling customers to travel sustainably in speed and comfort and contributes

significantly to the economic value of the region.

Following the move into the Group, TransPennine Express moved swiftly and strategically to take control of the business. The
first, and most important task, was to engage with its people and the business undertook a listening exercise to properly
understand their thoughts, feelings and hopes for the business. This helped to deliver a new and collaborative approach with
colleagues and stakeholders which is open and transparent, to drive immediate change and to lay the foundations for the

renaissance of the business.

Change is happening at pace, TransPennine Express is altering ways of working across the business to ensure its people are
fully trained, equipped and empowered to deliver for its customers. In delivering a series of initiatives and efficiencies,
TransPennine Express aims to drive a reduction in its subsidy profile over time to make it more financially sustainable. Through
these plans TransPennine Express will also provide better value for the taxpayer with the aim to balance the cost reductions
required by constrained industry finances and deliver sustainable journey growth and increase contribution to economic
growth,

The objectives of TransPennine Express’s plan will be delivered in three phases, the delivery of each is already under way
and will continue into the financial year ended 31 March 2025 and beyond.

4 of 63
Registered Address: 7" Floor, Bridgewater House, 58-60 Whitworth Street, Manchester, M1 6LT

y)

Transpennine Trains Limited

Strategic Report

For the year ended 31 March 2024
Stabilisation: of operational performance after nearly two years of poor service delivery, simplifying and rightsizing the
business for optimal delivery, and re-setting relationships with customers, colleagues and stakeholders.

Re-engagement: with customers and delivery of a premium experience onboard and at stations and then incentivising
them to travel with TransPennine Express from early 2024. TransPennine Express will engage with stakeholders to deliver
value for money and economic growth for the regions it serves, changing the way it works by enhancing digital capability

across the whole business.

Transformation: of the service offering by delivering Transpennine Route Upgrade (TRU) with new greener trains and
depots, enabling a significant timetable improvement which, alongside station investments, will lay the groundwork for the
delivery of Northern Powerhouse Rail.

To implement the pace and scale of the change required, TransPennine Express will provide a clear sense of purpose and
direction and an ambitious and single-minded approach, working with stakeholders in the Department for Transport (DfT),
Transport for the North (TfN), Transport Scotland (TS), Rail North Partnership (RNP) and the Group to reach consensus on
the delivery of the plan — providing strategic direction through to 2032.

A series of initiatives will be implemented during the three phases of TransPennine Express’s plan. These have been driven
by discussions within the management team, a ‘listening exercise’ with colleagues, engagement with RNP and other key
stakeholders, and a review of DfT Business Plan commitments. To provide strategic focus TransPennine Express has
prioritised deliverables into ‘Big Five’ themes.

1. TransPennine Express’s people and culture: they are the enablers of all TransPennine Express does. TransPennine
Express's vision and values underpin its service delivery, and these were relaunched in the spring of 2024 to ensure
they become part of business as usual activities and exist at all touchpoints throughout the business and any
colleagues’ life-cycle with TransPennine Express. TransPennine Express has already started to reset relationships
with its colleagues at all tevels to work collaboratively and openly.

2. TransPennine Express’s performance: TransPennine Express took immediate and decisive action to recover train
service performance starting with the delivery of the December 2023 timetable and will build on those changes for
the December 2024 timetable and safeguarding the delivery of TRU.

3. TransPennine Express’s customers: TransPennine Express will empower its people to deliver great customer service
and operational performance, giving them the resources, training and mandate to do so. TransPennine Express will

provide a secure and inclusive environment on its trains and stations to ensure they are open to everyone.

4. TransPennine Express's communities: TransPennine Express will embrace all those stakeholders with whom it has
a relationship from DfT, RNP, TS and TfN, through to voluntary groups with specific local needs. TransPennine
Express will establish a culture of openness and, as part of its longer-term objectives, it will also build on its alliance
working with Network Rail and on its role as delivery partner to TRU.

5. TransPennine Express’s growth: TransPennine Express will deliver financial growth to ensure its long-term
sustainability, reducing its subsidy and delivering value for the taxpayer and the economy. TransPennine Express
will enable environmentally sustainable growth to deliver integrated modal switch and carbon reduction targets.

Transpennine Route Upgrade (TRU)
The Transpennine Route Upgrade (TRU) between Manchester and York will allow trains to operate more reliably, at higher
frequency and at up to 125mph — reducing journey times between York - Leeds and Manchester, through investment in

5 of 63
Registered Address: 7" Floor, Bridgewater House, 58-60 Whitworth Street, Manchester, M1 6LT

A]

Transpennine Trains Limited
Strategic Report

For the year ended 31 March 2024
infrastructure upgrades, new digital signalling and new trains. The £11bn scheme will significantly reduce direct and indirect

carbon emissions through delivery of electrification of the Manchester to York route. It is a major investment that will allow
TransPennine Express to operate six trains per hour between Leeds and Manchester on the core route, which will result in

improved connectivity right across the North.

TransPennine Express is seeking to progress a TRU Track Access Option (TAQ) to secure future rights to deliver the benefits
of the investments being made across the North of England. This will enable the realisation of the frequency benefits from
currently planned investments and provide a firm basis on which TransPennine Express can work with partners on future

ambitions for rail service.

TransPennine Express enjoys a unique position as the Delivery Partner to the TRU Programme. This role has allowed
TransPennine Express to contribute to the development of an integrated programme across all aspects of timetable, rolling
stock and operations. Through TransPennine Express's leadership of a Strategic Access Taskforce this has allowed the cost
of access to be reduced considerably and its dedicated team of customer handling response staff have offered customers an
improved experience with a better planned and more integrated approach. TransPennine Express has also pioneered a joint
approach to the specification of rolling stock with Network Rail and other stakeholders to ensure this is aligned to infrastructure

and wider system requirements.

To date, TransPennine Express has gained TRU Board, DfT Investment Portfolio and Delivery Committee (IPDC) and Cabinet
Office endorsement for the revised rolling stock strategy, supporting the procurement of up to 55 new multi-modal trains, and
has worked swiftly to enable the rolling stock procurement restart following the termination of the original process due to the
transfer to the Group. Siemens have also been contracted with for the fitment of ETCS digital signalling equipment on existing
Class 185 trains. Design work has been completed for major station upgrade works at Stalybridge, Dewsbury and
Huddersfield.

The Delivery Partner mobilisation has continued, including recruitment of long-term roles to support key deliverables, with
industry leading colleagues recruited and inducted into the team to lead on key outputs, TransPennine Express’ digital
programme, new rolling stock procurement and timetabling.

During the financial year, TransPennine Express has led the operational response to nearly 100 days of planned closures and
the planning for c.160 days of closures over the coming three years. Projects have been completed with new infrastructure
and staff facilities in place to facilitate new regular passenger services between York, Castleford, Wakefield, and Huddersfield
— linking into Manchester — providing the competence retention needed for the diversionary route strategy and enabling
joumeys between these communities for the first time in a generation — a significant early benefit from TRU.

The approach adopted for TRU will form the basis for TransPennine Express’s future transformation and will be expanded to
cover the further programmes of investment on which service enhancements will depend. TransPennine Express will require
funding for engagement and support for the Integrated Rail Plan (iRP). This will develop the infrastructure to allow
TransPennine Express to operate two trains per hour between Newcastle and York. The Manchester & Northwest
Transformation Programme (MNTP) will build the infrastructure to allow TransPennine Express to operate two trains per hour
between Leeds and Manchester Airport. These programmes can be optimised by using the TRU approach to offer efficiency
in delivery.

6 of 63
Registered Address: 7" Floor, Bridgewater House, 58-60 Whitworth Street, Manchester, M1 6LT

my

Transpennine Trains Limited
Strategic Report

For the year ended 31 March 2024
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
In addition to monitoring financial performance, TransPennine Express uses a range of key performance indicators (KPls) to

assess the effectiveness of performance in key activities.

Safety

Safety is at the heart of TransPennine Express’s approach in running the railway. TransPennine Express is committed to
providing a safe working environment for all of its colleagues and safe end-to-end journeys for all customers. Headline safety
results for the year ended 31 March 2024 include:

Workforce lost time accidents per 1,000 employees fase Ce s—s—s—sSY
Employee physical assaults per 1,000 employees les Se Cid

This year there have been 3 RIDDOR (Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations 2013)
reportable customer accidents. The customer risk equates to a FWI (Fatality and Weighted Injury) MAA (Moving annual
average) of 0.525 per million train miles per annum. For staff accidents there was 1 RIDDOR reportable employee accident
during the reporting year, and the risk associated with this equating to FWI MAA of 0.121 per 1000 employees per annum.

TransPennine Express’s approach to safety, and safeguarding is about keeping customers and colleagues protected and
feeling safe while using services and is a key strategic priority. Much work has already taken place in this area, including the
opening of the Safer Hull Paragon Hub, replenishment of body-worn cameras, ongoing close working with British Transport
Police, and introducing more than thirty Safeguarding Champions across the TransPennine Express network. All
TransPennine Express stations and car parks have achieved Secure Stations accreditation, and the company has also

attained Safeguarding on Rail accreditation, reflecting its commitment to training colleagues in safeguarding.

All frontline TransPennine Express colleagues are provided with conflict avoidance training, and during the current year, a roll
out of body worn CCTV cameras has been completed that has ensured sufficient numbers of cameras are available for all
customer-facing colleagues.

All physical assaults are subject to a review and investigation process that includes follow-up support from TransPennine
Express’s embedded British Transport Police officer, and the business will support in securing a conviction where possible.
During the year, TransPennine Express worked with other Train Operating Companies (TOCs) to identify best practice related
to assault reduction which resulted in work with London North Eastern Railway (LNER) on a “Be Kind” campaign that aimed
to improve public behaviour towards frontline colleagues by demonstrating there is a human behind the uniform.

Employee Engagement
Following the move into the Group, a survey was sent to all colleagues which allowed them to feedback on three questions:

1. What do you like most about TransPennine Express?
2. What do you like least about TransPennine Express?
3. What would you like to see changed at TransPennine Express?

Although no engagement specific question was asked, this survey allowed colleagues to feedback on how they felt and what
they would like to see improved in their working environment. This survey ran for several weeks, and feedback was used in
the development of TransPennine Express’s Prospectus published in October 2023. As part of the Prospectus, colleagues
from across TransPennine Express were also asked to be part of a focus group — some were invited to further one-to-one

7 of 63
Registered Address: 7 Floor, Bridgewater House, 58-60 Whitworth Street, Manchester, M1 6LT

a}

Transpennine Trains Limited

Strategic Report

For the year ended 31 March 2024

interviews where more in depth feedback was obtained — to ensure the final document was a fair representation of colleagues’

experience across the entirety of TransPennine Express.

In August 2023, colleagues were asked to take part in an innovation challenge, which was focused on engagement and was
aligned to the culture of the wider Diversity and Inclusivity strategy. In this challenge, colleagues were asked to suggest ways
that TransPennine Express could better connect frontline colleagues and management. Ideas such as mentoring programmes,
‘day-in-the-life’ style communications, increasing the presence of senior management at depots and offering more reward and
recognition were suggested. As a result of this process, the Diversity and Inclusivity Manager has developed plans for two
new mentoring programmes.

Colleague Engagement Survey

The strategic decision was taken to not run the colleague engagement survey until March 2024 given the move to the Group
part way through the financial year. The colleague survey (Your Voice under FirstGroup ownership) has now been rebranded
Express Yourself, following consultation with colleagues, and provided TransPenhine Express with the first real opportunity'to
monitor perceived progress amongst colleagues. The overall engagement for the survey conducted in February 2024 was
70% against a target of 50%. The survey was completed by 61% of colleagues, a rise of 11% from the 2023 survey.

Train Performance

Time-to-3** 67.3% |.
Time-to-15"* 924.3% J.
a

**Time-to-3 and Time-to-15 measures the punctuality of services at each
Station called at along the route.

Cancellations

The 2024 moving annual average (MAA) contains around four months of operating with rest day working and six months
without. Despite this, the overall figures show a decline — especially for Time to 3. This is primarily attributed to poor Network
Rail performance over the autumn. There has been an improvement in the cancellations MAA from 6.6% to 4.8% - but these
improvements have been offset by increased late running, again, primarily due ta Network Rail issues.

Major challenges for performance throughout the year have included structural issues, including a viaduct fault at Plessey and
landslips at Dewsbury and Aycliffe, with impact from these major incidents occurring over multiple weeks in October and
November. This was followed by ongoing flooding and weather challenges, including the imposition of blanket emergency
speed restrictions and vegetation incidents. Track quality incidents have also been notably impactful, including a broken rail
at Huddersfield and a cracked crossing at Earlestown which resulted in a speed restriction in January 2024. These
infrastructure incidents have had a significant impact on TransPennine Express's punctuality metrics, as they affected all
services across a large section of the impacted route and, with the number of incidents increasing year on year, have resulted
in the overall decline of PPM and Time to 3 annual averages. TransPennine Express continues to challenge the response to
such incidents, alongside examining service recovery decisions and control actions, to ensure that the impact is mitigated as
far as possible.

TransPennine Express ‘on-self performance has improved significantly with the resumption of rest day working and improved
further following the December 2023 timetable. The timetable is also proving to be more resilient, allowing for faster recovery
from major incidents when they occur, which is predicted to result in improvements to the overall performance.

8 of 63
Registered Address: 7" Floor, Bridgewater House, 58-60 Whitworth Street, Manchester, M1 6LT

Transpennine Trains Limited

Strategic Report

For the year ended 31 March 2024

TransPennine Express identified a series of initiatives to be implemented at the December 2023 timetable change to improve

operational delivery and performance.

Removing the Class 68 locomotive-hauled trains (Nova 3) from the timetable provided a significant opportunity to simplify the
business, improve performance and deliver more efficient training delivery for drivers.

The Nova 3 fleet is currently expected to be leased until August 2024 and allowing these trains to go off lease has enabled
the development of a more flexible depot strategy for Class 397 (Nova 2) and Class 802 (Nova 1) trains.

The December 2023 timetable has also provided more room for training. Temporary timetable reductions between December
2023 and December 2024 timetables to three trains per hour off-peak between Leeds and Manchester have released
traincrew, trains and network capacity to enable TransPennine Express to continue to address the training backlog and
develop diversionary route knowledge in support of TRU. This has helped to bring more trainee drivers through to full
competency and continue the development of existing qualified driver knowledge. These changes have also already helped
deliver improved reliability, which is delivering more capacity for customers, through fewer cancellations.

Revenue

Overall, TransPennine Express's farebox revenue in the year ending 31 March 2024 has performed well, with overall farebox
revenue less delay repay refunds at £198,291k, This is driven by continued recovery across the industry emerging from several
years of COVID-19 suppressed demand, which had been set back further due to service reliability issues.

The early part of the financial year saw ongoing challenges relating to performance of the timetable introduced in December
- 2022, with many services experiencing pre-planned or short notice cancellations in light of local and national industrial relations

disputes and their impact on staff availability.

Following the TransPennine Express transfer to the Group, and other interventions to stabilise performance, revenue saw
strong growth during the summer and autumn months despite the prevalence of national strike dates, periods of action short
of a strike, multiple engineering blockades reducing service frequency, and a greater than usual impact from weather related
effects.

Revenue on Sundays had been significantly suppressed for more than a year due to a reduced timetable operating for several
months. This again derived from the industrial relations challenges, with Sunday working often relying on staff working their
rest days. In September 2023, the full Sunday timetable was reinstated, allowing for a boost to revenue.

The run up to the Christmas holiday period saw revenue reach its highest point since the start of the pandemic, with leisure

trips accounting for a major proportion.

As TransPennine Express entered 2024, revenue performance slowed with demand taking considerably longer to pick back
up again compared to previous years. This was likely due to the economic situation with customers feeling the impacts of the
cost-of-living crisis following from a period of spending during Christmas. This, combined with prolonged poor weather in
January, Saw many commuters choosing to work from home now that flexible working is much more commonplace. This trend
was replicated across other operators and appears to be a national issue.

TransPennine Express received £174,519k in subsidy from the DfT. The Company also received £28.299k through the
Transpennine Route Upgrade funding mechanism and generated £15,001k in other revenue. Other revenue is comprised of

9 of 63
Registered Address: 7" Floor, Bridgewater House, 58-60 Whitworth Street, Manchester, M1 6LT

Transpennine Trains Limited

Strategic Report

For the year ended 31 March 2024

car park revenue, commercial property revenue, railway station access revenue, maintenance revenue, fuel sales and

commissions receivable.

Throughout the financial year, TransPennine Express delivered several initiatives to provide value for money and incentives
for customers to return to rail. These initiatives included:

« A&£i sale in January 2024 which had a strong uptake by customers and recognition by national media.

« Participation in the Great British Rail Sale at the end of January 2024.

« Support for the launch of LNER 's Single Leg Pricing pilot by modifying TransPennine Express’s range of fares to
avoid generating any anomalies.

e A review of the pricing strategy to reflect changes to timetables, including the launch of a new route via Castleford in
December 2023.

* A partnership with Seatfrog Ops Limited to launch new ticketing propositions to support customers with easier ways
to change their booking and offering discounted fares for customers with a very high degree of flexibility.

OPERATIONAL REVIEW
Statement by the directors in performance of their statutory duties in accordance with s172(1) Companies Act 2006

Vision and Strategic Objectives
During the year TransPennine Express began work to redesign the company’s overarching purpose, vision and values.

The decision was taken, shortly after the change of ownership to the business, to devise and embed a new purpose, vision
and values which represented the new company and the new outlook of the business. The design of the new vision and values
has been colleague-led, with employees given the opportunity to present ideas and give opinions regarding the conceptual

ideas, the development of the key themes, and, of course, the final product and associated design work.

The new vision and values were launched at TransPennine Express’s annual leadership conference in April 2024 and are
underpinned by four objectives:

¢ Be yourself - TransPennine Express wants staff to bring their true self to work every day

« Make someone's day - with every decision, staff should put themselves in the other person's shoes and find moments
to make people smile.

e Raise the bar — TransPennine Express is on a journey to create a better future, but will only get there by trying to be
better and safer every single day.

« Pull together - it’s only through working together that TransPennine Express will reach its intended destination.
Ensuring the business is working in the interests of its colleagues

TransPennine Express aims to attract and retain the best people, and to make TransPennine Express a great place to work,
for everyone.

All managers are also expected to complete a programme of e-Learnings named ‘Manager Essentials’ which covers all topics
Managers may need to know when line managing. Whilst not specifically diversity and inclusivity (D&l) related, this course has

10 of 63
Registered Address: 7" Floor, Bridgewater House, 58-60 Whitworth Street, Manchester, M1 6LT

Transpennine Trains Limited

Strategic Report

For the year ended 31 March 2024

been D&I reviewed to ensure there is an inclusion theme throughout the leaming, especially in the recruitment section. This
is part of the probation mandatory training when any manager joins the business.

All line managers are expected to complete an in-person ‘Behaviours & Bias’ course which covers what bias is, the types of
unconscious bias, stereotyping, microaggressions, power and privilege and underpins the training with inclusive recruitment
practices. This course launched in May 2023, and so far, all conductor managers, driver managers and HR managers have
completed the course. A selection of other directorates has also completed, including the commercial team, revenue protection

and marketing.

In 2023, a new programme was launched for senior managers who have aspirations to become directors. This programme,
named Horizon, is a three-and-a-half-day course which looks at the internal operating system, how to use that to best effect
as a leader, how to build stakeholder relationships, how to lead radical change for the better and how to action plan one’s own

development. This programme is designed with an interwoven thread of inclusive leadership.

TransPennine Express’s relationship with suppliers and rail industry partners

TransPennine Express issued an interim Modern Slavery Statement for the remaining period of the year ending 31 March
2024, following the transition to DOHL on May 28, 2023. The statement primarily addresses TransPennine Express's position
and initiatives regarding modem slavery both internally and externally. Internally, there has been a focus on enhancing training
and awareness, in identifying potential safeguarding risks across the rail network and adhering to reporting procedures as well
as the introduction of a mandatory e-learning module on modern slavery. All third-party contracts also include a modern slavery
clause, mandating suppliers to uphold a zero-tolerance policy towards modem slavery. Furthermore, ongoing Utilities Contract
Regulations (UCR) procurement processes necessitate suppliers to have a modern slavery statement in place. Suppliers
operating solely through purchase orders are required to endorse a new supplier agreement emphasising compliance with
modern slavery regulations, as outlined in the TransPennine Express purchase order terms.

TransPennine Express has introduced a new supplier due diligence platform (Achilles), which allows annual audit checks to
take place to ensure suppliers maintain ethical standards agreed upon pre-contract, with a focus on modern slavery through
detailed questionnaires. Due diligence and auditing checks are conducted regularly to ensure suppliers uphold their status.
Third- party service-related contracts prioritise paying Living Wage to suppliers, agreements such as Provision of Security,
Catering, and Dispatch Services also support the Foundation Living Wage, which is based on a higher national rate.

External factors impacting the supply chain include inflationary pressures and commodity price fluctuations. Commodity prices
affecting third party contracts such as fuel and utilities, have been subject to fluctuations. To address this, TransPennine
Express has negotiated contracts supported by thorough market analysis and risk assessments of anticipated changes. This
proactive approach acknowledges the volatility and uncertainty surrounding commodity prices. Regulatory changes, including
the new Procurement Bill launching in October 2024, require TransPennine Express's regulatory compliance. TransPennine
Express has been actively involved in external consultations and is preparing for business readiness, including translating the
new act with support of external lawyers and implementing necessary steps and training in within the business.

Other factors affecting procurement and the supply chain have arisen from the transfer of TransPennine Express to DOHL,
which has impacted third-party contract arrangements, such as affiliate agreements and beneficiary agreements established
with FirstGroup plc/First Rail Holdings (FG/FRH). This necessitated TransPennine Express Procurement to engage with
extemal lawyers to conduct a thorough review of all FRH/FG work orders and frameworks, particularly for those which are
required to be extended for the year ending 31 March 2025, which facilitated in developing wider procurement strategies to
support replacement of services. Additionally, a detailed assessment of procurement and legal related risks and necessary

mitigation review has been undertaken.
11 of 63

Registered Address: 7” Floor, Bridgewater House, 58-60 Whitworth Street, Manchester, M1 6LT

Transpennine Trains Limited

Strategic Report

For the year ended 31 March 2024

Furthermore, the transfer prompted an evaluation of procurement activity which was live during transfer date, with decisions
made regarding whether to resume activities depending on the procurement stage they were at, based on the procurement
tisk profite. Such examples include new trains procurement and Class 397 Ovérhauls which has undergone a restart of the
process due to transfer, with an addition of twelve (12) UCR procurement processes commencing following transfer. Extensive
procurement efforts included establishing direct agreements with suppliers due to contracts previously having FG/FRH as the
contracting entity. Some third-party contracts were identified as ‘transferring arrangements’ to support the efficient transfer to

public sector and reduce any operational impact.

Moving forward, the procurement approach will allow TransPennine Express to leverage overall spend across DOHL TOCS.
Additionally, the ability to utilise public sector frameworks i.e., Crown Commercial Services and Yorkshire Purchasing
Organisation (YPO) Frameworks has also been beneficial in reducing UCR risk and are able to provide competitive commercial

offerings which TransPennine Express will benefit from, such as legal services and utilities.

Following a number of stories within the national media TransPennine Express has reviewed its reliance, both directly and
indirectly on the software company, Atos. Whilst TransPennine Express does not have any material direct relationship with
Atos, it is aware that a number of industry systems have a reliance on Atos. Contingency planning work has been co-ordinated
between Network Rail and RDG on this matter.

TransPennine Express’s relationship with customers, stakeholders and business partners

MAA

Customer Satisfaction

Net Promoter Score

TransPennine Express’s customer insight package includes Customer Service Monitor (CSM), Mystery Shopping, Post-Trip
Email Surveys, Social Media feedback, complaints/praise data and First-Class surveys as well as selected industry
publications. Across these channels, TransPennine Express measures key metrics including Net Promoter Score (NPS) and
Customer Satisfaction. The audit-based Service Quality Regime (SQR) measures aspects of service delivery against defined
standards. Improvements are managed via TransPennine Express's Insights and Improvements workshops that are held
periodically. These involve a variety of colleagues to derive improvements from insights and TransPennine Express continually

seeks ways to improve.

Customer satisfaction correlates strongly with performance, and TransPennine Express has seen its Net Promoter Score
increase since operations began. Starting from the transition date at -7, TransPennine Express has gradually improved this
position to +4 by the end of the period, leading to an MAA over the period of -1. Overall journey satisfaction has also performed
well, increasing to 83% in P13, leading to an MAA over the whole period of 82%.

SQR at TransPennine Express had a strong year of performance, with colleague helpfulness across both stations and on
board scoring highly with an average of 94.36% for the year. Customer information Online was also standout area for SQR as
it was the one area to consistently reach or exceed benchmark every period - even scoring 100% on five occasions.

At stations, the Customer Information During Disruption indictor consistently scored 100% in each period which contributed to
achieving the benchmark of 85% for Station Information for 23/24. Meanwhile on board, Cleanliness & Graffiti of trains was
the best performing area which saw TransPennine Express meet target seven times across the year.

12 of 63
Registered Address: 7" Floor, Bridgewater House, 58-60 Whitworth Street, Manchester, M1 6LT

Transpennine Trains Limited
Strategic Report

For the year ended 31 March 2024
Initiatives

In October 2023, TransPennine Express launched its Charm app, this was introduced to give colleagues the ability to provide
gestures of goodwill, on-the-spot, to customers on trains and at stations. It provides the facility to issue gift vouchers
immediately for more than 100 popular retailers, ranging in value from £5 to £20. They can be used to deal with dissatisfied

customers at times of disruption or enhance the experience for a customer undertaking a special journey.

In addition, as part of ‘Our Plan for the Future’ TransPennine Express launched a package of surprise and delight initiatives,
these include giveaways such as pancake mix on Shrove Tuesday, books for children on World Book Day, and pop-up pet
bowls and pet treats for Love your Pet Day.

Stakeholder engagement

The changes TransPennine Express made in December 2023 provided the foundations and resilience necessary to clear the
driver training backlog while providing strong operational performance for customers. These training plans will enable a
restoration of service frequency, notably a return to a four trains per hour timetable between Manchester and Leeds, in
December 2024. Looking forward TransPennine Express continues to work with the industry to agree a recast of the East
Coast Mainline timetable which will deliver the benefit of infrastructure investments on that route. This is not expected to see
TransPennine Express's service frequency increase until further infrastructure investments currently being progressed are
delivered, likely 2027 at the earliest. In the meantime TransPennine Express continues to manage considerable disruption to
its services as engineering works are completed to deliver the Transpennine Route Upgrade. While customer feedback for the
management of this disruption has been positive, it nonetheless represents a drag on the demand recovery enabled by robust

performance and growth initiatives.

TransPennine Express's relationship with stakeholders was severely affected by poor operational delivery, with the autumn
2023 stakeholder satisfaction score at 47% against a target of 90%. TransPennine Express has moved quickly to become
more open and transparent with stakeholders about the issues faced. How the business communicated and addressed
stabilising performance and growth in customer volumes to support local and regional economies was the first test of this new
approach. TransPennine Express has undertaken extensive briefing and discussion of its plans with stakeholders, this has
included presentations to the Rail Minister, members of the Rail North Committee and TfN Board. That productive engagement
continues and was followed-up with stakeholder conferences in Manchester and York which helped shape the delivery of
TransPennine Express’s plans for the future and cemented the new approach to stakeholder communications. To date that
approach has borne fruit — the Spring 2024 stakeholder satisfaction score increased to 74% against the 90% target.

Industrial Action

The challenge of industrial action has remained over the year and unfortunately this continues. Whilst some positive movement
progressed with the National Union of Rail, Maritime and Transport Workers (RMT) and the Transport Salaried Staff's
Association (TSSA), difficulties securing talks with the Associated Society of Locomotive and Firemen (ASLEF) remained.
Along with the rest of the industry, TransPennine Express has focused on attempts to secure a fair deal which will both reward
colleagues with increased pay, whilst establishing agreed principles needed to deliver workforce reform to ultimately improve

the reliability of services and deliver an equally fair deal for the taxpayer.

Several strikes and actions short of strike such as a ban on working contractual overtime, were called by the trade unions
nationaily over pay issues, and there was also industrial action in respect of local disputes. Inevitably this led to disruption for

passengers and customers.

With regard to the national pay dispute, throughout the year, as part of the trade body the Rail Delivery Group (RDG),
TransPennine Express have worked with other industry rail operators in an attempt to negotiate and reach solutions. Fair and
reasonable offers were put forward. TSSA members voted on the proposals accepting the deal which ended their dispute. The

13 of 63
Registered Address: 7" Floor, Bridgewater House, 58-60 Whitworth Street, Manchester, M1 6LT

Transpennine Trains Limited
Strategic Report

For the year ended 31 March 2024
RMT agreed a Memorandum of Understanding for their non-driver grades which settled their 2022 pay dispute and enabled

talks to be conducted from February 2024 to the end of April 2024, with a view to settling the 2023 pay claim.

Industry level negotiations have not yet resulted in any agreement with driver grades represented by ASLEF and the RMT.
TransPennine Express continues to both collaborate and negotiate with representatives of the trade unions in order to reach
solutions that will resolve disputes and seek to robustly rebuild the relationships that are required to focus on strong delivery

for its colleagues, customers and communities.

Transformation and digital innovation

Greater digital enablement and being more data informed in decision making will be a key element in new ‘ways of working’
across the whole of the TransPennine Express business, at all levels and in alt disciplines. TransPennine Express currently
uses a number of best-in-class analytical platforms which inform its commercial and financial analysis, and this approach has
been further rolled out into workforce planning and operational standards teams to support the delivery of stable operational
performance. TransPennine Express will build on this to ensure all parts of the organisation apply these best-in-class tools,
techniques, processes and systems to ensure that TransPennine Express is always focused on what is most important to

customers.

Legacy control and rostering systems will be replaced with modern systems offering much improved user interfaces, enhanced
processing and optimisation capability, easier process flows and improved management information. As timetable and
demand patterns stabilise, TransPennine Express will test and, if successful, implement improved demand forecasting and
price optimisation capability within the revenue management system which contral the quotas and prices of Advance Purchase
tickets available for sale. These functions should increase revenue and spread demand more efficiently, including helping to
decrease crowding. TransPennine Express are also working with partners including Network Rail and the rest of the industry
to generate and implement other development ideas to push booking horizons beyond T-12 weeks with an aspiration for T-52
weeks. The ‘Connected Train’ concept has the potential to improve the customer experience, improve fleet maintenance and
assist Network Rail with asset condition monitoring.

TransPennine Express are collaborating with other regional partners as part of the development of a future retailing strategy,
which is designed to support and drive the adoption of digital retailing, making systems easier for customers to use, and driving
down the retail cost of safe. TransPennine Express are working closely with Northern to implement Pay As You Go (PAYG)
ticketing across the Greater Manchester area in collaboration with Transport for Greater Manchester and will continue to work
in partnership with them to deliver their Trailblazer deal. This will involve modifying Automatic Ticket Gates (ATG), station and
onboard retail equipment. TransPennine Express plan to replace all of its Ticket Issuing Systems (Station, On Board and
Digital) as contracts become due for renewal. Currently, Trainline handles around 70 per cent of TransPennine Express’s
online ticket sales by value. Given this value and the low cost of sale — five per cent - TransPennine Express will continue to
work in partnership with Trainline to improve customer communications, reduce digital fraud and grow revenue. This will build
on the positive relationship established last year to communicate service changes during short-term timetable changes and

industrial action.

TransPennine Express recognises that the continuing customer preference for digital purchase and fulfilment make it essential
that the business plans strategically to reimagine its 19 stations. TransPennine Express are working with Northern to agree
how their Stations as a Place concept, as designed for its 18 largest hub stations, will integrate with TransPennine Express
requirements. Currently only two of TransPennine Express’s stations feature in the top ten by eamings or volume —
Huddersfield and Manchester Airport, and it is therefore vital from a revenue and customer experience perspective that positive
relationships continue to develop with the other Station Facility Operators (SFOs) across the network.

14 of 63

Registered Address: 7" Floor, Bridgewater House, 58-60 Whitworth Street, Manchester, M1 6LT

Transpennine Trains Limited
Strategic Report

For the year ended 31 March 2024
FINANCIAL REVIEW

Financial Year ending 31 March 2024 results

Tumover for the period from the transition date to the year end 31 March 2024 was £387,81 1k (2023: £nil) which reflects ticket
income earned from passenger services net of Delay Repay costs, associated income earned from car parks and commission
from the sale of tickets on other train operator services, and a Service Agreement subsidy from the DfT of £174,519k (2023:
Enil).

The operating expenditure reported in the period was £411,714k (2023: Enil), comprising access charges payable to Network
Rail for stations and depots, rolling stock lease costs, staff costs and other operating costs.

Profit before taxation was £2,925k (2023: £nil) with a total profit after taxation of £2,092k (2023: £nil).

At 31 March 2024 the Company had net assets of £2,092k (2023: £1 pound).

Principal risks and uncertainties
TransPennine Express is exposed to several potential external and internal risk factors that could have an impact on its

performance and achieving its strategic ambitions. To manage risk, TransPennine Express uses an enterprise risk
management framework. The Audit and Risk Committee plays a pivotal role working alongside the Executive Directors to
evaluate the effectiveness of risk management systems, as well as reviewing factors that either threaten performance or

provide an opportunity to improve it.

The risk management framework enables Directors to make strategic decisions based on regular reviews of the risk and
control environment, drives improvements to repeating processes such as health and safety requirements and regulatory

compliance, and guides the internal audit programme.

External risk factors that impact the business include the continuing post COVID-19 changes in travel patterns, national
industrial disputes, stakeholder expectations, climate change and cyber-attack. Under the terms of the Service Agreement,
TransPennine Express fatls under the regulation of the DfT, whose co-management of the Agreement alongside Transport for
the North is generally delegated to RNP and the Office of Rail and Road (ORR). Laws and regulations are subject to alteration
and amendment, and the costs of compliance with new legislation and regulations, including those in relation to the health and
safety of staff and customers, decarbonisation and the journey to net zero, and delivery of stakeholder expectations, may have
an adverse effect on TransPennine Express's financial performance. To reduce the impact on the business TransPennine
Express regularly reviews existing risks and where appropriate, improves mitigating controls in line with external movements,

as well as working collaboratively with government and industry groups.

Internal risks include the failure of business-critical systems, effective availability and use of resources, contract management
and delivery of the business plan. TransPennine Express operates established internal governance processes to ensure
systems and controls are operating effectively and due diligence is carried out. The Internal Audit function has established a
good and independent relationship with the business, providing assurance to Directors regarding internal processes and

systems based on a risk-based analysis of operations.

During the year TransPennine Express has reviewed the risk of reliance on third party suppliers and software. This risk rating
has been increased following the review of reliance of the industry on Atos systems. The key mitigation is participation by

15 of 63
Registered Address: 7" Floor, Bridgewater House, 58-60 Whitworth Street, Manchester, M1 6LT

Transpennine Trains Limited
Strategic Report

For the year ended 31 March 2024
TransPennine Express in wider industry forums with RDG, Network Rail, ORR, DOHL and DfT to manage the industry's

suppliers.

The Executive Team regularly reviews the Risk Register prior to an assessment by the Audit and Risk Committee to pass
judgement on whether the risk register represents a true and fair view of the risk environment of the business, based on

information and assurance provided to them and their own expertise.

Contingent Liabilities

It has been brought to the attention of the TransPennine Express that there has been a potential issue regarding whether
certain specific offences have been prosecuted in error using the Single Justice Procedure by the Company. This has been
discussed further in note 23 and will be progressed in due course.

Risk Appetite and Corporate Culture

TransPennine Express is continually looking for ways to improve and this year has focused on embedding detailed and agile
reporting as well as increased accountability to ensure risks are within pre-determined risk appetites as soon as practicable.
The aim is to understand risk causes and focus energies on eliminating risks where possible to reduce energy spent on
mitigation. TransPennine Express has worked closely with subject matter experts from across the business to ensure business
wide risks such as cyber security and climate change are adequately articulated and have the correct accountability assigned
and actions in place to drive risks down to target level.

TransPennine Express has a risk management plan and goals for the coming year so that the risk management approach

stays fit for purpose and the best it can be.

Corporate Governance Statement
TransPennine Express does not adopt a formal Code of Governance. In the year, TransPennine Express has maintained a
voluntary, publicly available Annual Governance Statement which sets out TransPennine Express's core governance

processes, controls, areas of strength and of development.

TransPennine Express is a subsidiary of DfT OLR Holdings Limited. TransPennine Express is governed by the TransPennine
Express Board which is chaired by a Non-Executive Director who is also the Group CEO, and comprises a mixture of

TransPennine Express Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors.

The Board is accountable for the overall leadership of TransPennine Express, setting strategy, values, and standards, ensuring
accountability, and shaping the culture of the organisation. The Board has delegated authority to three Board sub-committees
to discharge its duties effectively and these Committees escalate items to the Board where Board decision making, and

direction is required.

The Board defines the direction of TransPennine Express, setting policy and strategy regarding future development and
provides oversight and challenge of day-to-day operations, ensuring adequate systems and processes are maintained to
measure and monitor effectiveness, efficiency, and economy as well as the quality of safety, service delivery and governance

arrangements.

The Board met 11 times during the period from the franchise transfer to year end, approximately once every month. As
standard periodic meeting items, the Board considered its independence and potential confticts of interest and discussed

16 of 63
Registered Address: 7 Floor, Bridgewater House, 58-60 Whitworth Street, Manchester, M1 6LT

Transpennine Trains Limited
Strategic Report

For the year ended 31 March 2024
safety performance, performance against its Key Performance Indicators, customer advocacy scores and feedback, company

values and risk management.
The three Board sub-committees and their duties are as follows:

Audit and Risk Committee — the committee oversees the adequacy and effective operation of overall govemance and internal
control systems, including Risk Management, Financial, Operational and Compliance controls. The committee also reviews
and reports on these along with the related assurances that underpin the delivery of TransPennine Express’s objectives.

The Remuneration Committee — the committee carries out a strategic review of TransPennine Express staff including
considerations such as company-wide pay awards, pension contributions, bonus payments, and review of significant outputs

from the Group Remuneration Panel.

Safety, Health, Environment and Crime Committee — the committee reviews the strategy and operation of safety policy, health,

environment, decarbonisation and crime.

The Board reviews the Corporate Risk register every quarter drawing on recommendations from the Audit and Risk Committee

as well as internal cross functional reporting.

The Board fully promotes the vision and values which were defined by TransPennine Express's people, for its people. These
underpin everything it does as a business and are the pillars on which all of its activities are built including personal objective

setting and individual development plans.

Board members are drawn from a mix of backgrounds, skills, experience, and knowledge, with individual directors having
sufficient capacity to make a valuable contribution and there is a mix of genders within the Executive Leadership team to

support the Directors.

Clear Terms of Reference are in place for the Board and all sub-committees with appropriate non-executive representation on
each to provide relevant independent challenge. Governance arrangements are clearly defined with delegated authorities in
place for individual directors to be accountable for directorate decision making. Strategic papers are submitted to the Board

where approval is required at higher levels of delegated authority.

The Board actively seeks long term sustainable success for TransPennine Express and promotes opportunities where it can
lead the way, whether by innovating and bringing new technology into the railway or promoting investment in the North.

Clear and defined risk management arrangements are in place and considered at each Audit and Risk Committee, with
reporting to the TransPennine Express Board. The risk management framework is in place to prepare for events that may
impact TransPennine Express, actively mitigating future threats to its strategic objectives, and mobitising resources to put in
recovery plans reducing the impact and disruption to colleagues and customers.

TransPennine Express Directors ensure that the business engages closely with a wide range of stakeholders to ensure
strategy and priorities are focused on delivering for colleagues and the towns and cities of the North. There is a dedicated
team which creates engagement opportunities with media, political, local authority, user groups and business representatives,

sharing regular updates, and responding to enquiries.

17 of 63
Registered Address: 7" Floor, Bridgewater House, 58-60 Whitworth Street, Manchester, M1 6LT

Transpennine Trains Limited
Strategic Report

For the year ended 31 March 2024
The community team fosters relationships with charitable projects and initiatives to respond to the social challenges that

TransPennine Express can most affect, as well as to improve the businesses long term sustainability by working to improve
diversity and inclusion, and to identify, nurture and recruit talent from hard-to-reach groups. TransPennine Express leverages
a wide range of insight to listen to its customers and shape its approach to customer experience according to the improvements

they most want to see.

Finally, TransPennine Express's internal communication channels provide a multi-directional link between Directors, the
Executive Leadership Team, managers and the wider business with regular essential updates, opportunities for colleagues to
share their views and celebrate achievements and events. In the year, face to face Leadership Conferences for all managers
have been introduced. This has set out both what TransPennine Express wants to achieve in the business strategy and how
it wants to achieve it.

Non-Financial and Sustainability Information Statement

1. Introduction
The climate-related financial disclosure outlines risks and opportunities that extend to 2050 and aligns to the mandatory
requirements for a Non-Financial and Sustainability Information Statement (NFSIS), as outlined in the DESNZ supporting
guidance for 414CB Regulations as followed by other DOHL TOCs who reported in the prior year. In future the intention is to
align fully with HM Treasury TCFD disclosure guidance and steps have been proposed to that end.

TransPennine Express’ climate-related risks and opportunities have been assessed through a cross-functional review of
current and projected understanding of the impacts of climate change on the operations of the organisation. In addition, climate
risk screening under scenarios with 2°C and 4°C of warming to inform on the key risks at managed stations has been

undertaken.

Scope one, two and three emissions are disclosed and are publicly available via the annual sustainability report, whereby
TransPennine Express will continue to disclosure its trajectory against near-term science-based targets that were validated in
November 2023 by Science Based Target initiative (SBTi).

The Non-Financial and Sustainability Information Statement disclosure format index below is provided as a guide.

Section Disclosure Description as per NFSIS Reporting Requirements

Reference
Section 2 (a) a description of the governance arrangements of TransPennine Express in relation ta assessing and managing

Section 2 and 3
opportunities
Section 2 and 3 (c) a description of how processes for identifying, assessing, and managing climate-related risks are integrated into
the overall risk management process in TransPennine Express
Section 4 (d) a description of —
i. The principal climate-related risks and opportunities arising in connection with the operations of
TransPennine Express, and
The time periods by reference to which those risks and opportunities are assessed
Section 5 (e) a description of the actual and potential impacts of the principal climate-related risks and opportunities on the
business model and strategy of TransPennine Express

Section 6 (f) an analysis of the resilience of the business model and strategy of TransPennine Express, taking into
consideration of different climate-related scenarios

Section 7 (g) a description of the targets used by TransPennine Express to manage climate-related risks and to realise climate- |
related opportunities and of performance against those targets

(h) the key performance indicators used to assess progress against targets used to manage climate-related risks and
realised climate-related opportunities and a description of the calculations on which those key performance indicators
are based.

18 of 63
Registered Address: 7° Floor, Bridgewater House, 58-60 Whitworth Street, Manchester, M1 6LT

Transpennine Trains Limited
Strategic Report

For the year ended 31 March 2024
2. Governance

Governance of climate-related issues has been established through TransPennine Express's level one governance reporting
structure and board reporting processes. The TransPennine Express Board retains overall responsibility for the disclosure and
Board sponsor responsibility is held by the Finance Director. Board oversight remains under the governance arrangements of
DOHL for climate-related issues, which is provided through:

¢ Audit and Risk Committee (ARC): corporate risk register and financial information, including impact.
« Safety, Health, Environment Committee (SHEC): quarterly report, which provides oversight of operational safety
and sustainability performance against strategy and associated metrics and targets and climate-related risks and

opportunities.

To assess and manage climate-related risks TransPennine Express's cross-functional expertise and management team has
developed its CFD risk and opportunity register under the joint competency and responsibility of the Head of Financial Control
and Head of Sustainability.

The financial impact of climate-related risks and opportunities will be monitored through the ARC through a forthcoming

revision to terms of reference.

A level two quarterly cross-functional climate resilience working group is to be established under the Health, Safety and
Environment Strategic Delivery Group terms of reference to maintain the CFD risks and opportunities register, metrics and
inform a climate-resilience plan under the four pillars of sustainability aligned to United Nations Sustainable Development
Goals.

3. Identification, Assessment and Risk Management Process
To inform this disclosure TransPennine Express have engaged in physical climate scenario analysis to explore climate-related
tisks and opportunities.

Physical scenario analysis focuses on impacts under different physical climate change scenarios. The TCFD recommend
using the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change’s (IPCC) Representative Concentration Pathways (RCPs) for use in
physical scenario analysis. This assessment has used the Met Office UK Climate Projections 2018 (UKCP18) data and has
focussed on both the 2°C and 4°C scenarios, which broadly correspond to RCP4.5 and RCP8.5. TransPennine Express’s
scenario analysis methodology is continuing to evolve, and further analysis to translate the risks and opportunities into
actionable steps is anticipated.

The TCFD identified the following categories of climate-related risks and opportunities as follows:
¢ Transitional climate risks refer to the impacts associated with transitioning to a low-carbon, climate-resilient economy,
which may drive extensive changes across policy, regulation, technology, markets, and societal preferences.
* Physical climate risks refer to event-driven, short-term acute impacts or chronic impacts from longer-term changes in
climate, which will have direct and indirect financial implications on operations and supply chain.
* Climate-related opportunities refer to the opportunities arising from efforts to mitigate and adapt to climate change,
for example, through resource efficiency and cost savings, the adoption of low-emission energy sources, the

development of new products and services, access to new markets, and building resilience in supply chains.

Climate-related risks and opportunities have been identified following TCFD guidance for risk identification. This assessment
was supported by an extensive review of internal documentation, external documentation from other TOCs across the DOHL
19 of 63

Registered Address: 7" Floor, Bridgewater House, 58-60 Whitworth Street, Manchester, M1 6LT

Transpennine Trains Limited
Strategic Report

For the year ended 31 March 2024
group, and other TCFD reports from across the rail industry. TransPennine Express's corporate risk management scoring

system was used to assess each risk and opportunity.

This scoring system is scored through perceived probability of occurrence within the timeframe indicated, i.e., short, medium,
or long term, and degree of impact where a multiplication of both scores produces an overall risk classification score. The risk
scoring system is reversed for climate-related opportunities for example, ‘very high’ would result in savings excess of £5,000k.

Short, medium, and long-term timescales are used for evaluating the impacts of the climate-related risks and opportunities.
Post-2050 is the very long term and is considered to assess the financial impact for offsetting for any residual emissions post
net zero goal.

TransPennine Express's primary impacts attributed to the climate-related risks and opportunities have been assessed as
follows:

¢ — Increased operating costs: An increase to operating costs on any timescale without co-ordinated and targeted action
to reduce organisational exposure to such risks. Increased operating costs could arise from increased supply chain
costs, increased commodity costs such as utilities, or new organisational costs such as carbon offsetting.

« Decreased revenue: A decrease in revenue on any timescale without co-ordinated and targeted action to reduce
organisational exposure to such risks. E.g., decreased ticket sales due to extreme weather or poor public perception
of rail travel / perceived reliability of services.

« Harm to reputation: An impact from a climate-related risk which harms reputation. E.g., the impact of not meeting
sustainability objectives or net zero targets or harm to the public perception of TransPennine Express through less
reliability.

¢ Decreased operating costs: A decrease in operating costs e.g., switching out diesel trains for more efficient electric
rolling stock, or the replacement of gas boilers for more efficient heat pumps.

« — Increased revenue: An increase in revenue due to e.g., modal shift, or increased ticket sales due to the public
becoming more conscious of environmental impacts.

« — Enhanced reputation: An opportunity which results in TransPennine Express’s reputation being improved due to e.g.,
increased reliability of trains and the thermal comfort of new rolling stock, or achieving climate and sustainability goals

ahead of other transport operators,

In order to ensure action to mitigate risks and enhance opportunities action owners have been assigned to each identified

item.

To support the assessment of the physical climate-related risks, TransPennine Express has based its review on key
documentation, and an analysis of climate risks by:

e Screening managed stations for risks from flooding (surface water, river, and coastal), extreme temperatures
(heatwaves and cold snaps), and water scarcity. Screening involved an assessment of baseline risk under current
conditions, and the risk at 2°C and 4°C of warming.

« Undertaking a regional assessment of key climate projections, including policy-relevant metrics such as the number
of days exceeding temperature thresholds beyond which speed restrictions could be imposed, or rails might buckle.

* Reviewing rail-related risks/opportunities (flooding, heat, landslides, cold weather hazards and high winds) and
reference documentation e.g., Network Rail’s 3rd adaptation report.

The nature of TransPennine Express’s business means that it is highly reliant on Network Rail to maintain and operate a fully
functional rail network across its areas of operation, with damage and disruption from flooding, landslides, high winds, or
20 of 63

Registered Address: 7" Floor, Bridgewater House, 58-60 Whitworth Street, Manchester, M1 6LT

Transpennine Trains Limited
Strategic Report

For the year ended 31 March 2024
temperature extremes significantly affecting capacity to meet performance objectives and provide a reliable service. Network

Rail owns, operates, and maintains the railway infrastructure, and is solely responsible for ensuring that the railway is safe
and reliable. Network Rail is also responsible for future development of the railway infrastructure and the integration of climate
adaptation to ensure the railway and its associated systems are resilient to future climate change. As such, while risks affecting
the network are outside of direct control, they have been included in the risk register due to potential effect on operational

performance, safety and reliability of service, and company reputation.
For transition risks, the shared risk is less significant, however, Network Rail is responsible for procurement of the electricity

required to power electrified trains, meaning this electricity is purchased from Network Rail. This represents shared risk of
market volatilities in pricing and potential disruptions to the supply.

4. Principal Climate Related Threats and Opportunities including timescales and impacts

The risks and opportunities identified are presented in the tables below.

iD
PROO

hysical risks

Potential Impacts on Time
Business Strategy Horizon

Climate
Risk

Infrastructure damage from extreme events | Financial: Increased

(Network Rail): cost of delays.

Increases in both the frequency and magnitude of

extreme events such as flooding and landslides

expected due to climate change, increases the risk of Short,
Physical * an event that results in a major derailment and/or : medium,

passenger casualties. Any such incident would have | Operational: and long

severe legal, financial and reputational impacts. This | Increased risk to term

Risk Description

is a composite risk of increased track damage and | safety and reliability.
disruption, which, while owned by Network Rail, has

the potential to significantly disrupt operations and

result in compromised passenger safety, and

compensation events.

Damage to assets and passenger health from | Financial: Increased
extreme heat: asset maintenance.
Overheating incidents have caused air conditioning Medium
PR12 | Physicat | 0 trains to fail and ted to reduced service and F . and ton
y passenger comfort. The frequency of heatwaves and Pperational: to term g
high temperature will increase. There is a risk of safety and reliabilit
increased damage to assets, possibly compromising y-

passenger safety.

Reputational damage from weather-related rote ia dele reney
isruption:
payments.
Reputational damage occurs when services cannot
be run, regardless of whether TransPennine Express Medium
PR15 | Physical | or Network Rail are ultimately responsible. With | Reputational: and long
increasing numbers of extreme weather events, | Reduces reputation term
disruption witl increase, and this could cause | due to service
significant reputational damage, as passengers will | disruption.
be forced to choose alternative travel options due to

service disruption.

21 of 63
Registered Address: 7 Floor, Bridgewater House, 58-60 Whitworth Street, Manchester, M1 6LT

Transpennine Trains Limited
Strategic Report
For the year ended 31 March 2024

: 4.2 Principal transition risks

Climate . a. Potential Impacts on Time Risk!
. Risk Description . . Opp
Risk Business Strategy Horizon Score

Supply Chain Readiness:
Limited skills and resources within global supply
chains hindering Net Zero transition are assessed as
likely (4). Demand for net zero technologies and
facilitators poses a risk of increased costs for
technology due to scarcity. Roadmap reduction of
scope 3 emissions requires supply chain
decarbonisation and is therefore reliant on
contractors meeting their targets. The consequence
of this supply chain readiness risk is assessed as
medium (3), reflecting increased costs of access to
technology and the reputational impact of failing to
meet environmental targets.
Financial Impacts from New Carbon Pricing
Mechanism: .

Financial impacts resulting from the implementation
of a new carbon pricing mechanism are assessed
as very likely (4). This is influenced by the potential
necessity for carbon offsetting, which is particularly
challenging due to capacity limitations in credible
carbon removal services. Such pricing mechanisms
are anticipated to directly affect operating costs. The
consequence of these financial impacts is
considered high (4), reflecting increased costs and
potential regulatory and legal issues associated with
carbon offsetting and pricing.

High Operating Cost of Energy Transition:

Potentially high operating costs associated with the
transition to Net Zero, due to increased energy
demand and market volatility, are assessed as very
likely (5). This risk is influenced by the volatile nature
of fuel and energy prices, with the possibility of fuel
doubling and electricity tripling, significantly
impacting finances. The consequence of these high
operating costs is considered very high (5), reflecting
the substantial financial impacts

Financial cost associated with the early
retirement of assets in pursuit of Net Zero:

Financial impacts resulting from the early retirement
of assets is assessed as likely (4). The transition to | Financial: Increased
Net Zero will necessitate the early retirement of | cost

assets such as gas boilers and the replacement of
diesel fleets. The consequence of these financial
impacts is considered medium (3), reflecting costs of
asset replacements.

Financial: Increased
cost of access to
technology

Medium
and long
term

Reputational: Impact
of failing to meet
environmental targets

{D
+
Policy &

TR

Climate
Opportunity

Financial: Increased
cost

Medium,
long term
and ©
beyond

Reputational:
Potential
regulatory/Megal
issues of carbon
offsetting/pricing

Short,
medium,
and long
term

Financial: Increased
cost

Medium
and long
term

4.3 Principal physical and transition opportunities
Potential Impacts Risk/

Opportunity Description on Business bee on Opp
Strategy Score

Reduced network disruption from cold weather
{icing):
Speed restrictions caused by ice and cold
temperatures will become less common as
temperatures continue to increase. Snow, hail and
cold event impacts will be significantly reduced
compared to the baseline period. The impact of this
opportunity is medium (3), however the reduction in
heating demand is very likely (5) given confidence
in rising temperature.

Medium
and long

Reputational:
Reduced service
delays

Energy

22 of 63
Registered Address: 7" Floor, Bridgewater House, 58-60 Whitworth Street, Manchester, M1 6LT

Transpennine Trains Limited
Strategic Report

For the year ended 31 March 2024
Financial benefit to generating and/or
purchasing renewable energy:
Financial benefits resulting from the generation
and/or purchase of renewable energy is assessed
as likely (4). This is influenced by the transition to
Net Zero and the opportunity to utilise solar PV in | Financial: Short
station car parks and waiting facilities, as well as | Increased cost of and
the purchase of renewable energy. This provides | access to medium
an apportunity to sell excess renewable energy | technology. term
back to the grid whilst also strengthening energy
resilience. The consequence of these financial
impacts is considered high (4), reflecting a
decreased cost associated with energy expenditure
over the long term.
Reputational benefit and increased revenue | Financial:
from the replacement of ageing fleets: Increased revenue

Reputational benefits and increased revenue from

the replacement of old existing fleets with new

modern trains are assessed as likely (4). The ,

replacements will further contribute to achieving the Medium,
Products & | 2050 Net Zero target. The replacement of these R ional: long term
Services fleets, will result in a more comfortable environment | Reputational: and

for customers, facilitating the shift of customer

preferences towards rail use. The consequence of

these financial impacts is considered medium (3),

reflecting an increase in revenue gained from a rise

in rail use influenced by the above reputational

benefits.

Enhances beyond
reputation

5. Actual and Potential Impact on the Business
TransPennine Express considers climate change to be an increasing risk to its strategy and business model with impacts
already being felt. The impact of weather and climate change is already considered in some decision-making processes, and

these considerations will be embedded more widely in future periods.

Over the past year, TransPennine Express has improved its ability to assess climate-related physical and transition risks and
opportunities. Near-term science-based targets have been approved by the SBTi these approved targets have been published
alongside a first road map to decarbonisation. TransPennine Express will continue to enhance its understanding of climate-
related risks and opportunities and their associated impacts facing the business over the coming years.

6. Resilience of TransPennine Express's business model and strategy
TransPennine Express’s sustainability strategy sets out its carbon goals, including the removal of diesel only fleets by 2040.
The work done over the coming year to understand weather and climate change impacts will, along with the mitigation and
adaptation responses required for the relevant physical and transition risks and opportunities, help support business recovery
in addition to the medium to long term opportunities of the Transpennine Route Upgrade (TRU).

TransPennine Express is implementing new fleet procurement process, which is aligned to its road map to decarbonisation

and brings confidence to its near-term science-based targets.

The ongoing assessment to understand the physical climate-related risk and opportunities on the resilience of TransPennine
Express’s business model and strategy will continue to help build business capacity to respond to changing weather events.

Like all passenger train operating services, TransPennine Express is dependent on Network Rail and the resilience of the
railway infrastructure (as outlined in section 3). TransPennine Express will continue to work closely with Network Rail to
improve the resitience of its assets, both through the TRU and as a matter of course during future control periods. The TRU

23 of 63
Registered Address: 7" Floor, Bridgewater House, 58-60 Whitworth Street, Manchester, M1 6LT

Transpennine Trains Limited
Strategic Report

For the year ended 31 March 2024
will transform the core of the network and as a partner TransPennine Express will continue to seek to maximise the

opportunities that this multi-billion-pound programme brings to the North of England.

In the future, post 2050, being part of a carbon pricing scheme is likely to be mandatory. The costs of carbon credits are
anticipated to have a significant impact on business overheads. Demand for carbon credits will introduce uncertainty into
financial planning. Additionally, credible carbon removal sources are at capacity and failure to effectively manage carbon
emissions could pose reputational risks in a low carbon society.

Following validation and publication of its near-term science-based targets (SBTs) alongside its road map to decarbonisation,
TransPennine Express plans to develop a Climate Transition Plan aligned to the Transition Plan Taskforce to effectively
address the multiple challenges and opportunities presented by climate change and the transition to a low-carbon economy.
By proactively identifying and managing climate-related risks and opportunities, TransPennine Express believes it can

enhance its weather and climate resilience.

7. Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) and commitments
Metrics and targets available are set out below in line with TCFD’s 2021 guidance. TransPennine Express will continue to
define its metrics and targets as its understanding of climate-related risks and opportunities and their associated impacts
develops. This includes metrics and targets linked to climate-related opportunities, capital deployment, internal carbon pricing,

and remuneration.

Related Targets

Related Metrics

GHG Absolute Scope 1, Scope 2,.and Scope 3 The following science-based targets have been validated

Emissions | GHG emissions (Tonnes of CO2e). and approved by the Science Based Targets initiative:

« Scope 1 and Scope 2 reduction targets: near-term
reduction of 54.6% by year end 31 March 2033
compared to the baseline year of 2019.

e Scope 3 supplier engagement target covering
67.08% of emissions by spend by 31 March 2028.

Transition | - Risk of increased energy costs due to Already tracked performance of the following metrics

Risks energy transition: annual average price of against targets:

electricity £ per kWh. e Traction energy - kWh per vehicle km

- Risk of costs related to carbon pricing * e¢ Non-traction Energy - kWh used.

based on UK ETS scheme — price per metric ¢ Combined Traction and Non-Traction Carbon —
tonne of carbon multiplied by emissions. kgCO2e.

Physical - Proportion of stations at risk of flooding (%). | Targets to be established. Costs of cancellation and delay
Risks - Number of claims for accidents and injuries minutes tracked.

related to weather and climate issues.

- Number of delay minutes and cancellations

experienced due to weather-related incidents.

24 of 63
Registered Address: 7" Floor, Bridgewater House, 58-60 Whitworth Street, Manchester, M1 6LT

Transpennine Trains Limited
Strategic Report

For the year ended 31 March 2024
8. Progress to date and next steps

During year ended 31 March 2025 TransPennine Express intends to build on the work it has undertaken in the year to 31

_ March 2024, focused on:

Focus Area

Governance

Activities undertaken

March 2024

* Board sponsor and senior management
responsibilities for CFD appointed.

« Update to level one reporting governance
structure.

¢ Finance Director certified as carbon literate
and as executive sponsor of CFD process.

« Became a member of DOHL TCFD
working group.

in year ended 31

Activities planned for year ended 31 March 2025
and beyond

Review alignment of disclosure to HM
Treasury guidance with DOHL TOC’'s and
confirm with ARC ongoing position.

Level two climate resilient working group to be
established.

Update to corporate risk register to embed the
high-level transition and physicat climate-
related risks and opportunities and processes.
ARC terms of reference update with DOHL
endorsement.

Engagement .
with internal and
extemal
stakeholders

Road map to Net Zero published on

website and presented alongside

sustainability strategy at stakeholder

conference.

e Carbon literacy training to senior
managers.

« Engagement and subsequent input from

process as well as the assignment of an
action owner to begin managing these

stakeholders within the risk assessment }

Continue to deliver carbon literacy training to
managers and champions across the
organisation.

Frequent updates to risk and opportunity
assessment and actions via governance
arrangements.

Engagement with Network Rail on categories
for adverse and extreme weather to better
understand the economic/financial impact on
performance metrics.

*« Traction and non-traction targets
progressed with action plans under the
business plan. .

* Review of performance impact from
adverse and extreme weather events.

Embedding e CFD risk and opportunity register

climate developed.

resilience in | ¢ Ongoing engagement with Network Rail on

TransPennine a drainage review and option for an

Express's attenuation tank at Scunthorpe Station to

business reduce risk of surface water flooding.

strategy

risks.
Key metrics and | « Near-term science-based targets validated Financial impact assessment against climate-
targets by Science Based Target initiative. telated risks and opportunities to inform

financial risks disclosure and refine metrics

and targets for Ctimate-Related Financial
Disclosures (CFD).

Climate-resilience plan to be developed to
establish strategic responses to mitigate
climate-related risk and realise opportunities. .
Conduct transition-based scenario analysis to
investigate what would happen to the climate-
related risks and opportunities up to 2050
under differing speeds of transition.

On behalf of the Board

xo

Cc James
Director
02 July 2024

25 of 63

Registered Address: 7" Floor, Bridgewater House, 58-60 Whitworth Street, Manchester, M1 6LT


Transpennine Trains Limited
Directors’ Report

For the year ended 31 March 2024
Directors’ Report

The Directors present their report together with the audited financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2024.

Principal activities

From 28 May 2023, TransPennine Express has operated as a publicly owned company through a Service Agreement awarded
by the Secretary of State for Transport succeeding First Transpennine Express Limited. The service agreement runs until 25
May 2025, with the Secretary of State for Transport having the option to extend for at least a further two years

The principal activity of TransPennine Express is the provision of passenger railway services. Under the Service Agreement,

TransPennine Express receives subsidy payments to ensure an agreed contractual margin.

Results and dividends
The results for the year ended 31 March 2024 are set out in the Income Statement on page 37. The results for the year have -

been discussed in the Strategic Report on page 15.
Total ordinary dividends paid and proposed in the year were £nil (2023: £nil).

Future developments
The future developments for TransPennine Express are shown in the Strategic Report starting on page 4.

Sustainable Development and Social Value

TransPennine Express’s approach to sustainable development is fully embedded within its Sustainability Strategy. This
strategy provides it with a long-term vision with established key milestone targets to deliver against industry expectations, the
Department for Transport’s policy goals, and strategic UN Sustainable Development Goals, which are material to it as an
operator. It also supports TransPennine Express’s transformation plan and approach to modal shift.

During the financial year, TransPennine Express has taken forward severat strategic goals under its four Pillars of
Sustainability, whereby activities have been governed under its business assurance arrangements with opportunities,
outcomes, and risks reported to the TransPennine Express board. In the financial year TransPennine Express has published
its endorsement of the rail industry Sustainable Rail Blueprint and its road map to net zero. Furthermore, TransPennine
Express’s near-term science-based targets were validated by Science Based Target initiative (SBTi) in the year,.
demonstrating that its scope 1 and 2 near-term targets align to the latest climate science from the Intergovernmental Panel on
Climate Change (IPCC).

TransPennine Express's sustainability performance is reviewed annually and reported within the TransPennine Express
sustainability report, which includes outcomes from its social value reporting processes, including social return on investment
from its social impact activities, as measured by the Rail Social Value Tool. TransPennine Express continues to be committed
to delivering on its social value goals whilst continuing to support focal communities from its operations within the North and

into Scotland.

Environment — Streamlined Energy and Carbon Report The reporting year for TransPennine Express’s greenhouse gas
emissions (GHGs) is aligned with its financial year 1 April 2023 to 31 March 2024.

26 of 63
Registered Address: 7" Floor, Bridgewater House, 58-60 Whitworth Street, Manchester, M1 6LT

Transpennine Trains Limited
Directors’ Report

For the year ended 31 March 2024
Energy consumption and emissions are measured across the areas outlined in Table 1, which refers to the GHG Protocol

Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard and the UK Government's Environmental Reporting Guidelines in respect of
Streamlined Energy and Carbon Reporting.

TransPennine Express’s organisational reporting boundary includes activities associated with energy used to operate its train
fleets, stations where it is the Station Facility Owner and at Network Rail managed stations where it operates, and offices
including its head office. TransPennine Express applies the operational control approach. All of its reported energy
consumption and associated emissions are located within the UK.

Carbon emissions are calculated on a location basis using the appropriate CO2e conversion factor published by the
Department for Energy Security and Net Zero for each energy source and using the primary unit in which the data was
collected. Emissions are expressed in terms of equivalent carbon dioxide (CO2e). The relative performance metric is carbon
emissions per £million of turnover. Diesel and FAME litres have been converted to kWh using factors published by the
Department for Energy Security and Net Zero. , ,

Premise energy use is based on gross consumption and includes some estimated data where metered data is not available.
Within this, consumption by station tenants and other third parties supplied by TransPennine Express are included, with this
reported separately.

For electricity used to power trains TransPennine Express do not have a direct relationship with National Grid energy suppliers.
During the year this data is accessed through SNC-Lavalin’s EnergyX system, and then compared with Network Rail billing

information after year-end.

Water use includes use where there is a direct relationship with the supplier, it also includes use by tenants. Waste includes
data related to sites managed. There are some locations where TransPennine Express do not have oversight of any or some
of the following: electricity, gas, water, or waste. This includes all locations managed by Network Rail or another organisation,
and at TransPennine Express's head office.

Table 1 - TransPennine Express will restate figures when there has been a subsequent change in consumption data if

methodologies change and accounting errors were made.

Metric Carbon Total aT otal] Carbon [Carbon]
Scope Year to bY eargto} tCO2e* [tCo2zeg

| 31 March 24 §§31[March}23§ 31 March 24 (§31[March

Energy _

[rowges wm =|
[tracionaeseigies) || aa.t0|
| roanonsracionelecvicty vm) |e | aa |
est ps | rar 402,

|

631,750

p30]
| Other Environmental Parameters _

27 of 63
Registered Address: 7" Floor, Bridgewater House, 58-60 Whitworth Street, Manchester, M1 6LT


Transpennine Trains Limited
Directors’ Report
For the year ended 31 March 2024

Waste % recycled

Total sub-metered gas supplied to tenants (kWh

Total sub-metered electricity supplied to tenants
‘kWh

Total sub-metered water supplied to tenants (m3) | ae]

| Intensity-Ratios. aan _

Carbon emissions per f€million turnover tand2 167 tCO2e/£m 0 tCO2e/Em
tCO2e/Em Z |

Total Scope Carbon Emissions per £million | 1, 2and3 418 tCO2e/Em 0 tCO2e/£m
tumover (tCO2e/Em)

| Other Climate Impact Parameters . |

“eee of | _ |

Total Scope 2 Carbon Impact (Location Based) 2 7,657
{tCO2e)

— Pe fT
eee ee ne pemst |
:

Adverse/extreme weather performance impact Ni
{£'000)

The figures for the current year in the table above cover activity for the period from 28 May 2023 to 31 March 2024.

|

Energy Efficiency Action

In the year ending 31 March 2024 TransPennine Express commenced improvement projects to improve the energy efficiency
of its estate. Measures included a programme of minor works investments that saw the installation of LED lighting upgrades
with PIR sensors that will deliver a future saving of 13 Tonnes of CO2e per year and £24k per year in energy costs. The hand
drier upgrades will deliver a future annual saving of 2.7 Tonnes of CO2er and £3k per year in energy costs. The electric heater
replacement plan with new energy efficient units will deliver a future saving of 4 Tonnes of CO2e per year and £8k per year in

energy costs.

Directors
The Directors of the Company who were in office during the year and up to the date of signing the financial statements were:

Liam Talbot "| Resigned: 28 May 2023
Peter Grady Resigned: 28 May 2023
Dominic Haddock Resigned: 28 May 2023
Andrew MacDonald Resigned: 28 May 2023
Robin Gisby Appointed: 28 May 2023
Richard Harrison Appointed: 28 May 2023

28 of 63
Registered Address: 7" Floor, Bridgewater House, 58-60 Whitworth Street, Manchester, M1 6LT

Transpennine Trains Limited
Directors’ Report
For the year ended 31 March 2024

Christopher Jackson | Appointed: 28 May 2023
Darren Higgins | Appointed: 30 May 2023
Carolann James Appointed: 30 May 2023
Andrew Watkins Appointed: 30 May 2023, Resigned 30 March 2024

No Director had any interest in the share capital of the Company during the financial year (2023: none).
The Company entered no significant contracts or arrangements during the year in which any Director had a material interest.

Company Secretary

Matthew Bentle Resigned: 21 March 2024
Charlanne Hodgkinson Appointed: 21 March 2024
Employees
[ Diversity index ___ | As at 31 March 2024 As at 31 March 2023

Headcount (number) 1,802 :
Diversity (male) 75.6% :
Diversity (female) 24.4% :
Diversity (minority ethnic groups) | 6.7% :

Pay gap and inclusivity
TransPennine Express has complied with its legal obligation to publish its Gender Pay Gap by 31 March 2024.

As of 31 March 2024, 40 per cent of TransPennine Express directors were women, while 37 per cent of senior managers and

37 per cent of all management and supervisory grade were women.

Statements of the Company's policies during the year in respect of disabled persons

Following transfer into the Group, TransPennine Express continues to ensure compliance with the Public Sector Equality Duty
and, during the financial year, has made improvements to the Equality Impact Assessment process. Equality Impact
Assessment training has been delivered to relevant members of staff to increase competency on how to complete impact
assessments compliantly and meaningfully. Within the year TransPennine Express was accredited at the highest tier of the
Inclusive Transport Leader Scheme administered by the Department for Transport. An update to the TransPennine Accessible
Transport Policy has been undertaken following several amendments made. This policy is a core part of the businesses

Accessibility Engagement Plan.

In addition, a new ‘prams as wheelchairs’ policy has been introduced, which better aligns the operations of TransPennine
Express with the Equality Act 2010 by providing staff with a better understanding that some people might be travelling with a
child using a pram or pushchair instead of a wheelchair as it’s more age appropriate, and that they are permitted to pre-book
and travel in the wheelchair user space on trains. This policy has been included within the latest amendments to the Accessible

Travel Policy, which has been presented to ORR for review.

In delivering on policy commitments in respect of disabled persons, TransPennine Express agreed with ORR to deliver an
enhanced disability and equality bi-annual refresher course as an e-learning package. This refresher training material has
been developed and the completion rate against target is now on track with ongoing commitment for the delivery of this training
to all customer-facing staff as business as usual.

29 of 63
Registered Address: 7" Floor, Bridgewater House, 58-60 Whitworth Street, Manchester, M1 6LT

Transpennine Trains Limited
Directors’ Report

For the year ended 31 March 2024
Furthermore, accessibitity improvements continue to be made through a package of minor works. This investment aims to

deliver benefits to disabled people and includes a greater focus on hidden, as well as physical, disabilities.

Community Investments

Investments to Community Rail Partnerships — a total of £41k donation — Each Community Rail Partnership (CRP) that
TransPennine Express works with was funded to a total of £1.7k for the 2023/2024 financial year. There are 24 Community
Rail Partnerships that TransPennine Express works with, and it continues to support CRPs through attending meetings,
providing updates, and assisting with work each partnership undertakes. TransPennine Express has also collaborated with
industry partners to help support events such as Leeds Safety Week, in which more than 500 school children learned important
railway safety messages, and provided travel to support community events in conjunction with industry partners such as
Northern Trains.

The Proud Trust Partnership — £20k donation — In January 2024 a partnership between TransPennine Express and The Proud
Trust charity was agreed and signed for a period of 12 months. Within this it was confirmed that to become partners,
TransPennine Express will donate £20k within the financial year. The Proud Trust is an LGBT+ youth charity empowering
young people to be proud of who they are. The trust delivers youth work and one-to-one support across Greater Manchester,
and also runs a national training and inclusion programme for schools, Proud Connections Live Chat, and manages
Manchester's LGBT+ Centre, The Proud Place.

Junior Warden Days — In September 2023, Huddersfield Station hosted a Junior Warden Day with a local primary school and
Network Rail. The children got the opportunity to tour the station and see facilities such as the old signalling room as well as
a talk from BTP.

Meadowhall Mobility Scooter Scheme — £10k contribution — A contribution of £10k was made to South Yorkshire Mayoral
Combined Authority in response to a funding request towards the provision of a scooter/wheelchair ‘Meet & Greet’ hire facility
for those arriving by train to use whilst visiting Meadowhall Shopping Centre.

Charitable and political donations
TransPennine.Express made charitable donations of £2k during the year ended 31 March 2024 (2023: £nil). It made no political
donations (2023: £nil).

Financial Risk Management
Regular reviews are undertaken of the realisable value of assets and liabilities, and cash flow forecasts are produced to ensure

TransPennine Express can meet its external liabilities as they fall due.

TransPennine Express’s activities exposed it to a variety of financial risks. Price risk was managed by TransPennine Express
having a solid understanding of the markets that it operated within and setting appropriate fares for each of these markets. A
proportion of its fares are fixed prices which are set annually and are regulated by DfT. Credit risk was managed by cash being
held by large high street financial institutions with satisfactory credit ratings, furthermore all significant receivable balances are
managed to ensure that the credit quality of the counterparty is satisfactory. Liquidity risk is controlled by TransPennine
Express ensuring that there is a sufficient mixture of long-term and short-term debt finance to meet planned operations. Cash

flow risk is managed by cash flow budgeting and forecasting and availability of long-term debt facilities if required.

30 of 63
Registered Address: 7" Floor, Bridgewater House, 58-60 Whitworth Street, Manchester, M1 6LT

Transpennine Trains Limited
Directors’ Report

For the year ended 31 March 2024
Statement of directors’ responsibilities in respect of the financial statements

The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable
law and regulation.

Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under that law the directors have
prepared the financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (United
Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101 “Reduced Disclosure Framework”, and applicable law).

Under company law, directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair
view of the state of affairs of the company and of the profit or loss of the company for that period. In preparing the financial
statements, the directors are required to:

e — select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;

e state whether applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101 have been-followed, subject

to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements;
* make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and

¢ prepare the financial statements on the going concer basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company

will continue in business.

The directors are responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the

prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.

The directors are also responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the
company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and enable
them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.

Going Concern

The basis for preparation for these financial statements has been on a going concern basis which the directors consider is
appropriate given that the business is central to the country, both economically and socially. The directors consider the
preparation of the financial statements on a going concern basis to be appropriate due to several specific considerations in
the form of:

a. Railways Act 1993 legislation, whereby the government has duties to ensure that Franchise passenger train services

operate at all times;
b. available funding facilities (as outlined below);

¢. financial security of the ultimate shareholder (DOHL Group is 100% owned by the Secretary of State for Transport and
hence has a financially stable shareholder and is secure from a creditworthiness point of view: at the time of this
assessment, AA rating was awarded to the United Kingdom by most credit rating agencies) and

d. there being no other current viable option other than to continue running the Transpennine operations from the current
legal entity Transpennine Trains Limited (whereby options reviewed are: 1. transferring operations to a private sector entity.
Management believes this would take too long, circa 3 years to complete a transfer, which would fall outside of the
foreseeable future; 2: transferring operations to another entity in the public sector. Management believes there is not

31 of 63
Registered Address: 7 Floor, Bridgewater House, 58-60 Whitworth Street, Manchester, M1 6LT

Transpennine Trains Limited

Directors’ Report

For the year ended 31 March 2024
currently another government body to transfer TOCs to (as expressed by the DfT upon DOHL enquiry); 3. ceasing
operations - management believes this is not a viable option, in line with the Railways Act 1993).

TransPennine Express is 100% owned by Dff OLR Holdings Limited (DOHL) whose ultimate parent undertaking and
controlling party is the Secretary of state for Transport. DOHL has the contractual and other relationships in place with the
Secretary of State to enable it to perform its functions. The Government is contractually bound to support the Company for the
length of the service period.

TransPennine Express operates as a publicly owned train company through a Service Agreement originally awarded on 28
May 2023 by the Secretary of State for Transport to operate trains and stations until 28 May 2025. The Service Agreement
includes an optional extension of two years. The government is contractually bound to support TransPennine Express for the

length of the service period.

Under the Service Agreement, TransPennine Express is subject to fixed payments in the form of a franchise premium paid to,
or service agreement subsidy received from, the Department for Transport. Under the terms of the Service Agreement the
Company is entitled to earn a pre-defined margin of circa 1%, and the service agreement subsidy or franchise premium is
calculated so as to deliver this margin. It is calculated with direct reference to profits for each annual accounting period, and
there is no clawback mechanism for payments received, or linkage between calculations from one annual period to the next.

The directors’ going concern assessment is for a period of 12 months from the approval of these financial statements, to July
2025. The government is contractually bound to support TransPennine Express for the length of the service period which ends
in May 2025, at which point the current service agreement will end. The directors anticipate that an extension option in the
current service agreement will be granted to TransPennine Express, extending the current service agreement to May 2027.
The directors’ base case assumption therefore is that the operations will remain in this entity for a period of up to at least May
2027, and the fixed payment subsidy mechanism will ensure that TransPennine Express will be able to meet its liabilities as

they fall due for the full going concern period.

However, ministers have the discretion around whether to extend or renew each service agreement. Therefore in the absence
of confirmation at this stage that a new or extended service agreement will be awarded to the Company for a period beyond
the going concern period, management have modelled a severe but plausible downside scenario of the service agreement
ending in May 2025 within the going concern assessment period. Having performed a cash flow assessment in the unlikely
event of the new service agreement not being awarded, the directors are satisfied that the entity would have sufficient cash
flows to meet its liabilities as they fall due for the remainder of the going concern period after the service agreement expires.

Detailed cash forecasts are prepared and shared with the DfT regularly to demonstrate that TransPennine Express has
sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities as they fall due. TransPennine Express has access to a funding facility up to £160m
and the cash flow forecast and shows that the funding facility would not need to be drawn down in the going concern period.

Further, the directors have obtained a letter of support from DOHL confirming the support of the DOHL for the going concern
period to meet TransPennine Express’s liabilities as they fall due, should that be required.

32 of 63
Registered Address: 7" Floor, Bridgewater House, 58-60 Whitworth Street, Manchester, M1 6LT

Transpennine Trains Limited
Directors’ Report
For the year ended 31 March 2024

Indemnification of directors and officers
TransPennine Express’s ultimate parent maintains Directors’ and Officers’ Liability Insurance in respect of legal action that

might be brought against the directors of the Company. The ultimate parent has indemnified each of TransPennine Express’s
directors and other officers of the Company against certain liabilities that may be incurred as a result of their offices. This is a
qualifying third party indemnity.

This was in force during the financial year, and at the date of the approval of the financial statements, and there was no

utilisation of the insurance/indemnification during the financial year.

Directors’ statement of disclosure of information to auditors

The Directors who held office at the date of approval of the Directors' Report confirm that insofar as the Directors are aware,
there is no relevant audit information (as defined in section 418 of the Companies Act 2006) of which the Company’s auditors
are unaware, and they have taken all the steps required of them as Directors in order to make themselves aware of any-
relevant audit information (as defined) and to establish that the Company's auditors are aware of that information.

Independent Auditors
The independent auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, will be proposed for reappointment in accordance with section 485

of the Companies Act.

The financial statements on pages 37 to 63 were approved by the Board of Directors on 02 July 2024 and signed on its behalf
by

Cpe

Carolann James
Director
02 July 2024

33 of 63
Registered Address: 7" Floor, Bridgewater House, 58-60 Whitworth Street, Manchester, M1 6LT

Transpennine Trains Limited
Independent auditors’ report to the members of Transpennine Trains Limited
For the year ended 31 March 2024

Independent auditors’ report to the
members of Transpennine Trains Limited

Report on the audit of the financial statements

Opinion
In our opinion, Transpennine Trains Limited's financial statements:

* give a true and fair view of the state of the company’s affairs as at 31 March 2024 and of its profit for the year then
ended; .

* have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (United
Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 “Reduced Disclosure Framework”, and applicable law); and

« have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.

We have audited the financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Financial Statements (the “Annual Report”),
which comprise: the Statement of Financial Position as at 31 March 2024; the Income Statement, the Statement of
Comprehensive Income and the Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended; and the notes to the financial
statements, comprising material accounting policy information and other explanatory information.

Basis for opinion

We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) (“ISAs (UK)”) and applicable law. Our
responsibilities under ISAs (UK) are further described in the Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements
section of our report. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for
our opinion,

Independence

We remained independent of the company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the
financial statements in the UK, which includes the FRC’s Ethical Standard, and we have fulfilled our other ethical
responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.

Conclusions relating to going concern

Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified any material uncertainties relating to events or conditions that,
individually or collectively, may cast significant doubt on the company’s ability to continue as a going concern for a period of
at least twelve months from when the financial statements are authorised for issue.

In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting in
the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate.

However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this conclusion is not a guarantee as to the company's
ability to continue as a going concern.

Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the directors with respect to going concern are described in the relevant sections
of this report.

Reporting on other information

The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our auditors’
report thereon. The directors are responsible for the other information. Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover
the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated
in this report, any form of assurance thereon.

34 of 63
Registered Address: 7" Floor, Bridgewater House, 58-60 Whitworth Street, Manchester, M1 6LT

Transpennine Trains Limited

Independent auditors’ report to the members of Transpennine Trains Limited

For the year ended 31 March 2024

In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so,
consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in
the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material
misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial
statements or a material misstatement of the other information. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that
there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report based
on these responsibilities.

With respect to the Strategic report and Directors’ Report, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK
Companies Act 2006 have been included.

Based on our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006 requires us also to report certain opinions
and matters as described below.

Strategic report and Directors’ Report

In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic report and
Directors’ Report for the year ended 31 March 2024 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in
accordance with applicable legal requirements.

In light of the knowledge and understanding of the company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did
not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic report and Directors’ Report.

Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit

Responsibilities of the directors for the financial statements

As explained more fully in the Statement of directors’ responsibilities in respect of the financial statements, the directors are
responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied
that they give a true and fair view. The directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary
to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.

In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the company's ability to continue as a going
concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concem basis of accounting unless
the directors either intend to liquidate the company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.

Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free.from material
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’ report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance
is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs (UK) will always detect a
material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually
or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of
these financial statements.

Irregularities, including fraud, are instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations. We design procedures in line with
our responsibilities, outlined above, to detect material misstatements in respect of irregularities, including fraud. The extent to
which our procedures are capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud, is detailed below.

Based on our understanding of the company and industry, we identified that the principal risks of non-compliance with laws
and regulations related to Railways Act 1993, and we considered the extent to which non-compliance might have a material
effect on the financial statements. We also considered those laws and regulations that have a direct impact on the financial
statements such as the Companies Act 2006 and UK tax legislation. We evaluated management's incentives and opportunities
for fraudulent manipulation of the financial statements (including the risk of override of controls), and determined that the
principal risks were related to posting inappropriate journal entries to improve the financial results and management bias in
significant judgements and accounting estimates. Audit procedures performed by the engagement team included:

e Discussions with management including consideration of known or suspected instances of non-compliance with laws and
regulations and fraud;
e Review of board minutes;

35 of 63
Registered Address: 7" Floor, Bridgewater House, 58-60 Whitworth Street, Manchester, M1 6LT

Transpennine Trains Limited

Independent auditors’ report to the members of Transpennine Trains Limited

For the year ended 31 March 2024

« Reviewing financial statement disclosures and testing to supporting documentation, where appropriate, to asses
compliance with applicable laws and regulations;

« Review of legal expenditure in the year to identify potential non-compliance with laws and regulations;

« Evaluation of management's controls designed to prevent and detect irregularities;

« Identifying and testing journal entries, in particular any journal entries posted with unusual account combinations; and

¢ Challenging assumptions and judgements made by management in their significant accounting estimates, including
accounting for defined benefit pension schemes, initial recognition of IFRS 16 and the service agreement term assumption.

There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above. We are less likely to become aware of instances of
non-compliance with laws and regulations that are not closely related to events and transactions reflected in the financial
statements. Also, the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one
resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations,
or through collusion.

A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRC’s website at:
www. frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This description forms part of our auditors’ report.

Use of this report

This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the company's members as a body in accordance with
Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or
assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may
come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.

Other required reporting

Companies Act 2006 exception reporting
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:

* we have not obtained all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or

« adequate accounting records have not been kept by the company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received
from branches not visited by us; or

¢ certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or

¢ the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.

We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.

Other matter

The financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023, forming the corresponding figures of the financial statements for
the year ended 31 March 2024, are unaudited.

fag

Andy Ward (Senior Statutory Auditor)

for and on behalf of PricewaternouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
Leeds

3 July 2024

36 of 63
11 6LT

Transpennine Trains Limited

Income Statement

For the year ended 31 March 2024

Income Statement

Passenger revenue

Other revenue

Total Revenue
Other operating costs
Other operating income

Operating profit

Finance costs

Profit before taxation

Tax on profit

Profit for the financial year

The Income Statement has been prepared on the basis that all operations are continuing operations.

Note

N

The accompanying notes form an integral part of this Income Statement.

37 of 63

2024
£000
198,291
189,520

387,814
(411,714)
29,524

2023
£000

5,621
(2,696)

2,925
(833)

2,092

———

Registered Address: 7" Floor, Bridgewater House, 58-60 Whitworth Street, Manchester, M1 6LT

Transpennine Trains Limited
Statement of Comprehensive Income
For the year ended 31 March 2024

Statement of Comprehensive Income Note

Profit for the financial year

Other comprehensive income/(expense)

Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss:

Actuarial gain on retirement benefit obligations 20
Tax on defined benefit pension 8b
Total items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss

Items that may be reclassified to profit or loss:

Change in fair value of cashflow hedges
Total items that may be reclassified to profit or loss

Total other comprehensive expense for the year

Total comprehensive income for the year

38 of 63

2024 2023
£000 £000
2,092 -
2,092 :

Registered Address: 7" Floor, Bridgewater House, 58-60 Whitworth Street, Manchester, M1 6LT

Transpennine Trains, Company Registration Number 12544930
Statement of Financial Position
As at 31 March 2024

Statement of Financial Position 2024 2023
Note £000 £000
ASSETS .
Non-current assets
Tangible assets 9 49,055 -
Investments 10 - -
Deferred tax assets 15 202 :
49,257 -
Current assets
Inventories 11 444 -
Trade and other receivables: amounts falling due within one year 12 85,450 -
Cash at bank and in hand 29,193 41
115,087 1
Total assets . 164,344 1
LIABILITIES
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables: amounts falling due within one year 13 (102,522) . (1)
Provision for liabilities falling due within one year 14 (8,119) -
Lease liabilities 19 (40,102) :
Total current liabilities (150,743) (1)
Non-current liabilities
Trade and other payables: amounts falling due after more than one year 13 (1,506) . -
Lease liabilities 19 (6,138) -
Provision for liabitities falling due after more than one year 14 (3,865) -
Retirement benefit liability (net) 20 : :
(11,509) :
Total liabilities (162,252) ()
Net Assets . 2,092 =.
EQUITY
Called up share capital ; 16 - -
Retained earnings 17 2,092 -
Total shareholders’ funds . 2,092 :

The accompanying notes form an integral part of this Statement of Financial Position. The financial statements on pages 37
to 63 were approved by the board of Directors on 02 July 2024 and were signed on its behalf by

Carolann James

Director

02 July 2024

Company registered number 12544930

39 of 63
Registered Address: 7" Floor, Bridgewater House, 58-60 Whitworth Street, Manchester, M1 6LT

Transpennine Trains Limited
Statement of Changes in Equity
For the year ended 31 March 2024

Statement of Changes in Equity

As at 1 April 2022

Result for the financial year

Total other comprehensive income for the year
Total comprehensive income for the year

As at 31 March 2023
Profit for the financial year
Total other comprehensive income for the year

Total comprehensive income for the year

As at 31 March 2024

40 of 63

Total
Called up Retained shareholders’
share capital earnings funds
£000 £000 £000
- 2,092 2,092
: 2,092 2,092
: 2,092 2,092

Registered Address: 7" Floor, Bridgewater House, 58-60 Whitworth Street, Manchester, M1 6LT

Transpennine Trains Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements

For the year ended 31 March 2024

Notes to the Financial Statements

1. Material accounting policies

The Company is a private limited company, limited by shares and registered in England. The address of the Company's
registered office is shown on page 3 and a description of the Company's principal activities are set out on page 26. The
Company was incorporated on 2 April 2020 and is domiciled in the United Kingdom.

The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below, and, unless
otherwise stated, these policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented.

a. Basis of preparation

The Company operates as a publicly owned train company through a service agreement originally awarded on 28 May 2023
by the Secretary of State for Transport to operate trains and stations until 25 May 2025. The service agreement includes an
optional extension of two years. This provides certainty over the length of the service agreement period associated with the
IFRS 16 lease liabilities and right of use assets and the going concem assumption applied within the financial statements.

The company was dormant in the prior year and commenced trade on the award of the service contract in May 2023. As such
the P&L figures quoted for the year represent just over 10 months of trading.

Amounts in these financial statements are presented in sterling, rounded to the nearest thousand (£000) unless otherwise
indicated.

These financial statements have been prepared under the historic cost convention in accordance with United Kingdom
Accounting Standards, in particular Financial Reporting Standard 101, ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’ (FRS 101) and the
Companies Act 2006 (the Act) as applicable to companies using FRS 101. This has changed from prior year financial
statements which were prepared under ‘Financial Reporting Standard Applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland’ (FRS 102).

These are the first financial statements of the Company prepared in accordance with FRS 101. The Company's date of
transition to FRS 101 is 1 April 2023, and FRS 101 has been applied retrospectively to the opening balance sheet of the
comparative year, being 1 April 2022. In preparing its opening FRS 101 balance sheet, the Company has assessed the impact
of the amounts reported previously in the financial statements prepared under FRS 102 and has determined there to be no
recognition or measurement differences. The company has however changed the format adopted for the balance sheet from
Companies Act Format to IAS 1 format. The impact of this is follows:

+ Debtors: amounts falling due within one year is now disclosed as Trade and other receivables
* Creditors: amounts falling due within one year is now disclosed as Trade and other payables

As allowed under FRS 100 para 11(b), no opening balance sheet at the date of transition has been presented.

FRS 101 sets out a reduced disclosure framework for a “qualifying entity” as defined in the standard which addresses the
financial reporting requirements and disclosure exemptions in the individual financial statements of qualifying entities that
otherwise apply the recognition, measurement and disclosure requirements of international accounting standards in conformity
with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.

IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts replaces IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts and is effective for accounting periods beginning on or
after 1 January 2023. The Company has assessed the impact the new accounting standard will have on the financial
statements for the year ending 31 March 2024 and there is no expected impact. There are no other amendments to accounting
standards, or IFRIC interpretations that are effective for the year ended 31 March 2024 that have a material impact on the
Company's financial statements.

The following exemptions from the requirements of IFRS have been applied in the preparation of these financial statements,
in accordance with FRS 101:

e IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures

41 of 63
Registered Address: 7" Floor, Bridgewater House, 58-60 Whitworth Street, Manchester, M1 6LT

Transpennine Trains Limited
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 March 2024
1. Material accounting policies (continued)
e Paragraphs 10(d), 10(f), 16, 38A-D, 40A-D, 79(a)(iv), 111 and 134-136 of IAS 1, Presentation of financial statements
« IAS 7, Statement of Cash Flows
¢ The requirements of IAS 24, Related Party Disclosures, to disclose related party transactions entered into between
two or more members of a group
e Paragraph 17 of IAS 24, ‘Related party disclosures’ (key management compensation)
« Paragraph 73(e) of IAS 16, Property, Plant and Equipment
* Paragraph 118(e) of IAS 38, Intangible Assets
« Paragraphs 91 to 99 of IFRS 13, Fair Value Measurement
« Second sentence of paragraph 110 and paragraphs 113(a), 114, 115, 118, 119(a) to (c), 120 to 127 and 129 of IFRS
15 Revenue from Contracts with Customer

b. Going Concem
The basis for preparation for these financial statements has been on a going concern basis which the directors consider is

appropriate given that the business is central to the country, both economically and socially. The directors consider the
preparation of the financial statements on a going concern basis to be appropriate due to several specific considerations in
the form of:

a. Railways Act 1993 legislation, whereby the government has duties to ensure that Franchise passenger train services
Operate at ail times;

b. available funding facilities (as outlined below);

¢. financial security of the ultimate shareholder (DOHL Group is 100% owned by the Secretary of State for Transport and
hence has a financially stable shareholder and is secure from a creditworthiness point of view: at the time of this
assessment, AA rating was awarded to the United Kingdom by most credit rating agencies) and

d. there being no other current viable option other than to continue running the Transpennine operations from the current
legal entity Transpennine Trains Limited (whereby options reviewed are: 1. transferring operations to a private sector entity.
Management believes this would take too long, circa 3 years to complete a transfer, which would fall outside of the
foreseeable future; 2: transferring operations to another entity in the public sector. Management believes there is not
currently another government body to transfer TOCs to (as expressed by the DfT upon DOHL enquiry); 3. ceasing
operations - management believes this is not a viable option, in line with the Railways Act 1993).

The Company is 100% owned by DfT OLR Holdings Limited whose uitimate parent undertaking and controlling party is the
Secretary of state for Transport. DOHL has the contractual and other arrangements in place with the Secretary of State to
enable it to perform its functions. The Government is contractually bound to support the Company for the length of the service
period.

Under the Service Agreement, the Company is subject to fixed payments in the form of a franchise premium paid to, or service
agreement subsidy received from, the Department for Transport. Under the terms of the Service Agreement the company is
entitled to earn a predefined margin, and the service agreement subsidy or franchise premium is calculated to deliver this
margin. It is calculated with direct reference to profits for each annual accounting period, and there is no clawback mechanism
for payments received, or linkage between calculations from one annual period to the next.

The directors’ going concern assessment is for a period of 12 months from the approval of these financial statements, to July
2025. The government is contractually bound to support the Company for the length of the service period which ends in May
2025, at which point the current service agreement will end. The directors anticipate that an extension option in the current
service agreement will be granted to this entity, extending the current service agreement to May 2027. The directors’ base
case assumption therefore is that the operations will remain in this entity for a period of up to at least May 2027, and the fixed
payment subsidy mechanism will ensure that the entity will be able to meet its liabilities as they fall due for the full going
concern period.

42 of 63
Registered Address: 7" Floor, Bridgewater House, 58-60 Whitworth Street, Manchester, M1 6LT

Transpennine Trains Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements

For the year ended 31 March 2024

41. Material accounting policies (continued)

However, ministers have the discretion around whether to extend or renew each service agreement. Therefore in the absence
of confirmation at this stage that a new or extended service agreement will be awarded to the Company for a period beyond
the going concern period, management have modelled a severe but plausible downside scenario of the service agreement
ending in May 2025 within the going concern assessment period. Having performed a cash flow assessment in the unlikely
event of the new service agreement not being awarded, the directors are satisfied that the entity would have sufficient cash
flows to meet its liabilities as they fall due for the remainder of the going concern period after the service agreement expires.

Detailed cash forecasts are prepared and shared with the DfT regularly to demonstrate that the Company has sufficient liquidity
to meet its liabilities as they fall due. In addition, the Company has access to a funding facility up to £160m for the going
concer period. The cash flow forecast for the going concern period shows that the funding facility would not need to be drawn
down in the going concem period.

Finally, the Company directors have obtained a letter of support from its parent company, DOHL, confirming the support of the
parent company for the going concern period to meet its liabilities as they fall due, should that be required.

c. Revenue

Passenger revenue represents amounts agreed as attributed to the Company by the revenue allocation systems of the Railway
Settlement Plan Limited (“RSP”), mainly in respect of passenger receipts. Revenue is attributed based principally on models
of certain aspects of passengers’ travel patterns and, to a lesser extent, from allocations agreed for specific revenue flows.

Travel on a train operating company’s service can be sold by other train operating companies as well as other travel retailers.
Furthermore, certain tickets for train travel can be sold which provide the holder with a choice of train operators to travel with.
In light of those factors, our passenger revenue includes amounts receivable from individuals or groups of individuals to travel
on UK rail services that is attributed to train operating companies by the Railway Settlement Plan Limited (RSP). RSP
administers the revenue allocation system within the UK rail industry and allocates revenue to operators principally on agreed
models of route usage.

Procedures exist to allow operators to challenge the appropriateness of revenue allocation. Revenue is only recognised when
it is highly probable that a significant reversal will not occur.

Delay Repay customer compensation, which is compensation paid to customers who have experienced a delay of more than
15 minutes on their journey, is treated as a reduction in passenger revenue in line with IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with
Customers.

Other revenue is generated in the course of the Company’s ordinary activities and is derived from car park revenue,
commercial property revenue, railway station and depot access revenue, maintenance revenue, fuel sales and commissions
receivable. Revenue is recognised when a customer obtains control of goods or services and has the ability to direct the use
and obtain the benefits from the goods or services. Revenue from services is recognised on the basis of agreed rates and is
recognised over time over the period the services are rendered. Commission revenue is recognised on an accrual basis in
accordance with the substance of the relevant agreements.

Deferred revenue is generated when passengers purchase tickets for travel in future financial years. This is then released in
the same financial year as the travel. The value of the deferred revenue is reported through the revenue allocation system
detail. Season ticket revenue is deferred and released to the income statement over the period of the relevant season ticket.

Other operating income includes funding received from the Department of Transport under the Transpennine Route Upgrade
funding mechanism. This funding is recognised as agreed underlying costs for the scheme are incurred. It also includes the
amortisation of capital grant income, which is recognised as the underlying assets are depreciated, and the release of revenue
related provisions.

d. Service agreement premium/subsidy
Under the Service Agreement, the Company is subject to fixed payments in the form of a franchise premium paid to, or service
agreement subsidy received from, the Department for Transport. Under the terms of the Service Agreement the company is

43 of 63
Registered Address: 7" Floor, Bridgewater House, 58-60 Whitworth Street, Manchester, M1 6LT

Transpennine Trains Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements

For the year ended 31 March 2024

1. Material accounting policies (continued)

entitled to earn a pre-defined margin, excluding disallowed expenses, and the service agreement subsidy or franchise premium
is calculated so as to deliver this margin.

\t is calculated with direct reference to profits for each annual accounting period, and there is no clawback mechanism for
payments received, or linkage between calculations from one annual period to the next. As such, the unit of account is deemed
to be each annual reporting year. During the annual reporting period, interim periodic payments are received from or made to
the Department for Transport. The overall net amount paid or received in each annual period is recognised as income or costs
within that year in full.

In annual periods where a net subsidy payment is received from the Department for Transport this is considered to be a
government grant and is therefore accounted for as such. As the grant is considered to be to compensate for lost revenues,
this is presented within the revenue section on the income statement to most closely show the substance of the arrangement,
however it is not IFRS 15 revenue from a contract with a customer.

In annual periods where a net franchise premium payment is made to the Department for Transport this is considered to be
an operating levy, and the payments are therefore presented within operating costs but shown as a separate line on the face
of the income statement to assist with understanding of the impact of these amounts on the financial performance of the entity.

e. Performance incentive payments/reimbursements

The Company pays track access charges to Network Rail, who in return provide access to rail tracks and undertake
maintenance on these tracks to ensure that they are in a suitable condition for operation of rail services. Track access charges
include elements of fixed, variable, and other charges as shown in the operating profit note. Further adjustments, known as
performance incentive payments, are made to this charge depending on availability of the line, which can either be additional
charges payable to Network Rail or reimbursement from Network Rail depending on the cause of the access issue.

Performance incentive payments/reimbursements made to or received from Network Rail by the Company in respect of rail
operational performance are recognised in the same year that the performance relates to and are classified within operating
costs. These are adjustments to the fixed, variable and other access charges for planned or unplanned disruption on the line
and can be either reimbursement of or further payments for overall track access costs. Management's judgement is that the
treatment of net presentation within operating costs is appropriate as the substance of the performance incentive payments is
that they are part of the variable pricing mechanism for the overall track access charges being expensed through operating
costs for the year.

In the balance sheet, receivables and payables arising from each individual claim related to performance incentives are
presented as other receivables, gross from amounts due to Network Rail from the Company which are presented as accruals

as the offsetting criteria are not met given that the Company settles these on a gross basis for individual performance incentive
payments made / received.

f. Taxation
Tax, current and deferred is calculated using tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the Statement of Financial
Position date.

Corporation tax is provided on taxable profits at the current rate applicable. Tax charges and credits are accounted for through
the same primary statement as the related pre-tax item.

Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to taxation authorities
using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the Statement of Financial Position date.

g. Deferred tax

Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all material temporary differences that have originated, but not reversed, by the
Statement of Financial Position date. Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis at tax rates that are expected to
apply in the years in which the timing differences reverse.

44 of 63
Registered Address: 7" Floor, Bridgewater House, 58-60 Whitworth Street, Manchester, M1 6LT

Transpennine Trains Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements

For the year ended 31 March 2024

1. Material accounting policies (continued)

Deferred tax assets are recognised where their recovery is considered more likely than not in that there will be suitable taxable
profits from which the future reversal of underlying timing differences can be deducted.

h. Dividends and Share Capital
The Company accounts for dividends in the Statement of Changes in Equity when approved by the Board and paid during the
year. Ordinary shares are classified as equity.

i. Intangible assets

Intangible assets are shown at their original historic cost net of amortisation and any provision for impairment. Cost includes
the original purchase price of the assets and costs attributable to bringing the asset to its working condition for its intended
use.

Amortisation is charged on a straight-line basis and is recorded in operating costs in the Income Statement.

IT Software 3 years
Licence costs The shorter of the licence or the expected life of the Service Agreement
Mobilisation costs Expected life of the Service Agreement

Work in progress assets are not amortised until they are available for use and on completion are transferred to the appropriate
asset class.

The need for any impairment write-down is assessed by comparing the carrying value of the asset against the higher of fair
value less costs to sell and value in use. Detailed discounted cashflow forecasts are prepared to assess the value in use when
either internal or external sources of information have indicated an impairment event.

Intangible assets acquired separately from a business combination are capitalised at cost. Amortisation of intangible assets is
calculated on the straight-line method to write-off the cost of each asset over the expected life.

j. Tangible assets
Tangible assets are stated at historic cost less accumulated depreciation. Depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis to
write off the cost less estimated residual value of fixed assets over their expected useful economic lives as follows:

Plant and equipment 3-10 years

Right of use assets Shorter of the expected life of the Service Agreement or the lease term

Assets under construction are not depreciated until they are available for use and on completion are transferred to the
appropriate asset class.

The need for any impairment write-down is assessed by comparing the carrying value of the asset against the higher of fair
value less costs to sell and value in use when an impairment event is identified. Detailed discounted cashflow forecasts are
prepared to assess the value in use when either intemal or external sources of information have indicated an impairment
event.

k. Right of use assets
Right of use assets comprise rolling stock and leasehold buildings. At the lease commencement the Company recognises
both a right of use asset and a lease liability.

Right of use assets are initially measured at a cost which includes:

« — the initial measurement of the lease liability using the present value of the lease payments payable over the lease
term, discounted ai the rate implicit in the lease if that can be readily determined. If that rate cannot be readily
determined, the Company will use the incremental borrowing rate;

e the lease payments made before or after commencement, less the lease incentives received;

45 of 63
Registered Address: 7" Floor, Bridgewater House, 58-60 Whitworth Street, Manchester, M1 6LT

Transpennine Trains Limited
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 March 2024
1. Material accounting policies (continued)
* anestimate of the costs incurred upon disassembling and eliminating the underlying asset, including restoring the
underlying asset to the condition required by the terms of the lease.

After the commencement date the Company measures its right of use assets using a cost model. Right of use assets are
depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and the practical end of the current service period and are presented as part of
tangible assets in note 9.

Where the expected end of the service period is amended, a reassessment of the lease liability is calculated using the present
value of the lease payments payable over the remaining service term. The reassessment adjustment is also added to the right
of use asset carrying value. The change is accounted for as a reassessment rather than as a lease modification due to the
fact that the extension option is conveyed by the original contract terms. Under this approach the incremental borrowing rate
at the point of the reassessment is used. Corresponding lease liabilities are presented and accounted for as current and non-
current liabilities in note 19.

The lease liability is initially measured at the present value of future lease payments, discounted using the rate implicit in the
lease if that can be readily determined. If that rate cannot be readily determined, the Company will use the incremental
borrowing rate. After the commencement date the Company measures its lease liabilities by increasing the carrying amount
to reflect the interest on the lease liability, reducing the carrying amount to reflect the lease payments made and reassessing
the carrying amount to reflect new measurements or changes in the lease. The discount rate used is updated at the point of
reassessment.

The lease term generally comprises non-cancellable period of lease contracts plus periods covered by an option to extend the
lease if the Company is reasonably certain to exercise that option.

Variable and fixed track access payments are deemed outside the scope of IFRS 16. Access to the track is not exclusive and
the Company cannot restrict access to other operators or freight, hence do not obtain substantially all the economic benefits
of use, therefore they do not meet the scope of IFRS 16 and are recognised through the Income Statement as incurred in
operating costs.

Station access charges are deemed outside the scope of IFRS 16 as it is deemed that Network Rail controls these assets and
significant restrictions are in place on the operator, therefore they do not meet the scope of IFRS 16 and are recognised
through the Income Statement as incurred in operating costs.

Rolling stock leases are assessed for lease and non-lease elements. The non-lease elements (service and maintenance
arrangements) do not meet the scope of IFRS 16 as there is no identifiable asset and are recognised through the Income
Statement as incurred in operating costs.

The Company has elected to apply the exemption included within IFRS 16 for short term leases (lease terms of less than 12
months) and low value leases (asset values less than £5k). The lease payments associated with these are recognised as an
expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term.

Where the Company is an intermediate lessor, it accounts for the head lease and the sub-lease as two separate contracts.
The sub-lease is classified as a finance or operating lease by reference to the right of use asset arising from the head lease.
Rental income from operating leases is recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.

Amounts due from lessees under finance leases are recognised as receivables at the amount of the Company’s net investment
in the leases. Finance lease income is allocated to accounting years to reflect a constant periodic rate of return on the
Company's net investment outstanding in respect of the leases.

During the year, the Company has sub-leased some of their rolling stock as a lessor on a short-term basis. These have been
accounted for as an operating lease and the rental income recognised in other income.

i Inventories
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value on a weighted average cost basis. Cost comprises direct
costs and excludes borrowing costs. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less

46 of 63
Registered Address: 7" Floor, Bridgewater House, 58-60 Whitworth Street, Manchester, M1 6LT

Transpennine Trains Limited

Nates to the Financial Statements

For the year ended 31 March 2024

1, Material accounting policies (continued)

the costs of completion and selling expenses. Where necessary, provision is made for obsolete, slow moving and defective
inventory.

m. Grants

Capital grants are credited to deferred grant income and released to Other Income within the Income Statement over the
estimated useful economic lives of the related assets to depreciation. Deferred capital grant income is presented and
accounted for within Trade and other payables in note 13.

n. Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand and deposits held at call with banks.

o. Employee benefits

i. Short term employee benefits
Short term employee benefits are expensed as the related service is provided. A liability is recognised for the amount expected
to be paid if the Company has a present legal or constructive obligation to pay this amount as a result of past service provided
by the employee and the obligation can be estimated reliably.

ii. Termination benefits
Termination benefits are expensed at the earlier of when the Company can no longer withdraw the offer of those benefits and
when the Company recognises costs for a restructuring. If benefits are not expected to be settled wholly within 12 months of
the reporting date, then they are discounted.

p. Retirement benefits

The Company contributes to a defined benefit pension scheme within the Railway Pension Scheme (RPS) on behalf of their
enrolled employees. The RPS is a shared cost scheme, which means that costs are formally shared 60% employer and 40%
employee. The Company is responsible for relevant funding of their section of the RPS during the period of the Service
Agreement, and at the end of the Service Agreement period the Company will have no liability for any deficit existing in its
Franchise Section (other than for contributions due for any period prior to the end of the service period) and shall have no right
to benefit from any surplus which may exist in the Franchise Sections.

The trustees complete a full actuarial valuation triennially, but the obligation is updated annually by independent actuaries
using the projected unit credit method for reporting purposes. The tevel of contributions paid by the Company is in line with
the latest certified schedule of contributions (SOC) which was signed in 2022 using the 2013 SOC rates. Work to agree the
2022 triennial valuation was completed in the year and the changes in rates were consulted with employees and the valuation
completed prior to 31 March 2024. The 2016 and 2019 funding valuations of the RPS have not yet been signed, this is
expected to be completed in the coming year.

The Company’s method by which the pension accounting reflects the franchising arrangement is the Income Statement
Franchise Adjustment Method. The accounting treatment for the terms of the Company's pension scheme is not explicitly
considered by IAS 19 Employee Benefits (Revised).

Since the contributions currently committed to being paid are lower than the share of the service cost (for current and future
service) that would normally be calculated under IAS 19 (Revised), the Company does not account for uncommitted
contributions towards the pension obligation outside the franchise period. This reflects the tegal position that a proportion of
the pension obligation and current year service costs and some of the service costs in the current year will be funded in future
years beyond the term of the current franchise and committed contributions.

As a result, the Company consequently makes an adjustment to both the pension obligation and service costs through the use
of an income statement franchise adjustment. The income statement franchise adjustment reflects the extent to which third
parties are expected to contribute towards the cost of the plan as a consequence of the pension obligation transferring at the
end of the franchise, which is deemed, in the directors’ view, in line with paragraphs 92-94 of IAS 19 Employee Benefits
(Revised).

Under the policy described above

47 of 63
Registered Address: 7" Floor, Bridgewater House, 58-60 Whitworth Street, Manchester, M1 6LT

Transpennine Trains Limited
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 March 2024
1. Material accounting policies (continued)
« The current service cost and gains and losses on settlements and curtailments are recognised in staff pension costs
within operating costs in the income statement.
e Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments, changes in actuarial assumptions and amendments
to pension plans are charged or credited to the Statement of Comprehensive Income in the year in which they arise.
The assets in the scheme are not quoted.

The charges in respect of defined contribution schemes are recognised when they are due.

q. Related parties

The Company considers other DOHL subsidiaries and Network Rail to be material related parties (and therefore those
transactions are disclosed), and all other entities within the government as non-significant related parties (which are therefore
not disclosed).

rt. Provisions

Provisions for current obligations and legal claims are recognised when: the Company has a present legal or constructive
obligation as a result of past events; it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation; and the
amount has been reliably estimated. Provisions are not recognised for future operating losses.

Provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation using a pre-
tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the obligation. The
increase in the provision due to passage of time is recognised as interest expense.

Dilapidation provisions held in relation to legacy rolling stock are based on expected costs of restoring the leased assets to
the required state before being returned to the lessor where the lessee is contractually obligated to do so. The dilapidations
provision is presented and accounted for within current and non-current liabilities.

The amount of any provision is re-assessed at each Statement of Financial Position date. Any increase or decrease required
to the amount of the provision is charged or credited to the Income Statement.

S. Investments

Unlisted equity investments are carried in the Statement of Financial Position at fair value and any changes in fair value are
recognised in the income Statement. Investments in associates are held at cost. Investments in associates are subject to an
impairment review if events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying value may not be recoverable.

t. Financial instruments

Financial instruments held by the company are trade and certain other receivables, amounts owed from group undertakings,
trade and certain other payables, amounts owed to group undertakings and cash. Financial instruments are initially measured
at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less loss allowance.

The company applies the IFRS 9 simplified approach to measuring expected credit losses which uses a lifetime expected loss
allowance for all trade receivables. To measure the expected credit losses, trade receivables have been grouped based on
shared credit risk characteristics and the days past due.

u. Critical estimates and judgements

Preparation of the financial statements, in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard (“FRS") 101, requires directors to
make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts in the financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual
outcomes could differ from those estimated. The Directors believe that the accounting policies and estimation techniques
discussed below represent those that require the greatest exercise of judgement.

The Directors have used their best judgement in determining the estimates and assumptions used in these areas, but a
different set of judgements could result in material changes to the Company's reported financial performance and/or financial
position.

48 of 63

Registered Address: 7" Floor, Bridgewater House, 58-60 Whitworth Street, Manchester, M1 6LT

Transpennine Trains Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements

For the year ended 31 March 2024

1, Material accounting policies (continued)

The critical estimates and judgements summarised below cover those regarded by the Directors as critical to the Company's
reporting in general.

i. Pensions - estimate . ‘
The determination of the Company’s pension benefit obligation disclosures involves estimation uncertainty as it is dependent
on the selection by the Directors of certain assumptions used by actuaries in calculating such amounts. Those assumptions
include the discount rate, the annual rate of increase in future salary levels and mortality rates. The Directors’ assumptions
are based on actual historical experience and external data.

While the Directors believe that the assumptions are appropriate, significant differences in actual experience or significant
changes in assumptions may materially affect the disclosure of total defined benefit obligations.

The pension assumptions may vary due to actual changes in market conditions following the Statement of Financial Position
date, but IAS 19 requires the assumptions to be set based on the market conditions prevailing at the reporting date. The
pension assumptions are also affected by judgments the Directors are required to make on matters that cannot be directly
observed from market prices such as life expectancies, future pay increases, harder to value assets and the criteria for bonds
to be included in the population from which the discount rate is determined. Note 20 provides information on the sensitivity of
pension benefit obligations to changes in assumptions.

fi. Pensions — judgement

in addition to the critical estimate described above, there is also considered to be critical judgement in relation to the
interpretation of IAS 19 p92-94. The interpretation applied reduces any section deficit/ surplus balance and reduces any service
costs that would give rise to an increase in such deficit/ surplus through the use of the income statement franchise adjustment
as described in the accounting policies note. This reflects the extent to which third parties are expected to contribute towards
the cost of the plan as a consequence of the deficit/ surplus transferring at the end of the franchise.

fii. Service agreement term assumption — judgement & estimate
The Company operates as a publicly owned train company through a Service Agreement originally awarded on 28 May 2023
by the Secretary of State for Transport to operate trains and stations across its network until 25 May 2025. The Service
Agreement includes an option for the DfT to extend by two years.

The judgement affects these financial statements in respect of reporting for leases under IFRS 16 and going concern as
follows:

« IFRS 16-Atinception of the lease management assesses the lease term. In this assessment management considers
options for extension associated with the lease and includes these in the lease term if they are reasonably certain
they will be exercised. This judgement over whether the service agreement will be extended beyond 25 May 2025
impacts the lease liabilities and right of use assets recognised on the balance sheet at inception of the lease.
Management considers there is no reasonable certainty that the extension will be exercised.

« Going concern - The Service Agreement with the DfT ensures that the Company earns a margin of circa 1% at Profit
Before Tax, excluding disallowed expenses. This provides the Company with certainty and stability over its
operations. The current Service Agreement runs until 25 May 2025. Whilst there is the potential for the agreement to
continue until 2027, in the absence of any formal notification from the DfT we have prepared our financial statements
using the current Service Agreement end date.

iv. Accounting for transfer of assets — judgement
A judgement has been taken to account for the transfer of assets from FTPE to the Company as an asset acquisition and not
a business combination under IFRS 3.

The directors consider that the assets acquired from FTPE do not constitute a business, as they do not represent an “integrated
set of activities” as required to be defined as a business. This judgement is primarily based on the premise that those inputs
most critical to the operation of the business (rolling stock leases, the DfT service agreement, the workforce, and the pension
scheme obligations) are not being acquired from the acquiree, rather they are acquired by or recognised in the Company as
a result of a separate transaction with another party. Given that the franchise agreement gives the entity the rights to contract
49 of 63 7

Registered Address: 7" Floor, Bridgewater House, 58-60 Whitworth Street, Manchester, M1 6LT

Transpennine Trains Limited
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 March 2024

1. Material accounting policies (continued)

separately for inputs to the operation of the rail franchise including leases, workforce and other operating agreements with
National Rail, and such rights are not acquired from the previous franchise, the Directors have made the judgement that the

transfer does not meet the definition of a business combination under IFRS 3, and should be accounted for as an asset
acquisition.

The transfer agreement was finalised between FTPE and the Company on 30 October 2023. The assets transferred are
outlined in note 25.

v. Other areas of judgement and accounting estimates

The financial statements include other areas of judgement and accounting estimates. While these areas do not meet the
definition under IAS 1 of significant accounting estimates or critical accounting judgements, the recognition and measurement
of certain material assets and liabilities are based on assumptions and/or are subject to longer term uncertainties. Other areas
of judgement and accounting estimate are:

« Pay award — at year end there has been no agreement on pay award for the majority of TransPennine Express
employees relating to the year ended 31 March 2024. Management have accrued the best estimate of the wage
award (note 13).

50 of 63
Registered Address: 7" Floor, Bridgewater House, 58-60 Whitworth Street, Manchester, M1 6LT

Transpennine Trains Limited
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 March 2024

2. Revenue
All revenue originates in the United Kingdom.

The Directors consider that the whole of the activities of the Company constitute a single class of business consisting of
passenger and other revenue as disclosed in the Income Statement.

Revenue, excluding value added tax (VAT) where applicable, is comprised of:

2024 2023

£000 £000
Passenger revenue 201,883 -
Delay Repay costs (3,592) -
Total passenger revenue 198,291 -
DfT service agreement subsidy 174,519 -
Other revenue 15,001 :
Total other revenue 189,520 =
Total revenue 387,811 -

Other revenue comprises car park revenue, commercial property revenue, railway station access revenue, maintenance
revenue, fuel sales and commissions receivable. As discussed in the DfT service agreement subsidy accounting policy, this
is not IFRS 15 revenue.

3. Operating profit

Operating profit is stated after charging: 2024 2023
£000 £000
Staff costs (note 5) 102,115 -
Other external charges 80,061 -
Depreciation (note 9) 34,027 -
Inventories recognised as expenses (note 11) 13,173 -
Station & track access & facilities 77,759 -
Performance incentive (reimbursements)/payments. (25,159) -
Rolling stock costs 106,365 -
Traction electricity charge (EC4T) 6,913 -
Auditors’ remuneration — audit fees 331 -
Auditors’ remuneration — non audit services - -
British Transport Police charges 3,528 :
Onerous Lease provision charge 12,601 :

411,714 :

Performance incentive (reimbursements)/payments includes Schedule 4 and Schedule 8 payments made to and from Network
Rail. These payments are made to compensate for alterations to scheduled services for both planned track work and
unplanned incidents.

4. Directors’ remuneration

2024 2023

£000 £000
Emoluments in respect of qualifying services to the Company 454 -
Company pension contributions 35 -

489 =

51 of 63
Registered Address: 7'" Floor, Bridgewater House, 58-60 Whitworth Street, Manchester, M1 6LT

Transpennine Trains Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements

For the year ended 31 March 2024

4. Directors’ remuneration (cont)

The emoluments of the highest paid Director are £168k (2023: Enil). The value of the Company's contributions paid to a defined
benefit pension scheme in respect of the highest paid director amounted to £12k (2023: Enil).

The remuneration of Richard Harrison and Robin Gisby is paid by the parent company. Their services to this company are of
a non-executive nature and their remuneration is deemed to be wholly attributable to their services to the parent company.
Accordingly, the above details include no remuneration in respect of the non-executive directors (2023: £nil).

No shares were received or are receivable by any director in respect of qualifying services under a long term incentive scheme.

5. Staff costs
2024 2023
£000 £000
Wages and salaries 87,577 -
Social security costs 9,756 -
Other pension costs 4,782 -
Total staff costs 102,115 -

The average monthly number of full-time equivalent employees (including Directors) during the year was as follows:

2024 2023
Number Number
Managerial and administrative 1,387 -
Operational 322 -
1,709 :
6. Other operating income
2024 2023
£000 £000
TRU subsidy 28,299 -
Release of transferred provision (Note 15) 1,100
Amortisation — DfT Capital Grant 125 :
Total 29,524 :

The TRU subsidy represents compensation received from the Department of Transport for costs incurred in supporting the
Transpennine Route Upgrade project. National Rail Infrastructure Limited act as the pass-through funder for this arrangement.

7. Finance costs

2024 2023
£000 £000
Finance costs
Interest payable for IFRS 16 lease liabilities 1,804 -
Interest Paid 892 -
Total Finance costs 2,696 :
Net finance charge (2,696) -

52 of 63
Registered Address: 7" Floor, Bridgewater House, 58-60 Whitworth Street, Manchester, M1 6LT

Transpennine Trains Limited
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 March 2024

8. Tax on profit

a. Tax recognised in the Income Statement

2024 2023
Current taxation: £000 £000
UK Corporation tax at 25% 1,035 -
Group relief payable - -
Adjustments in respect of prior years - -

1,035 -
Deferred taxation:
Current year (202) -
Adjustments in respect of previous years : -
Total deferred tax (note 15) (202) -
Total tax charge reported in the Income Statement 833 -

b. Tax on defined benefit pension

2024 2023
Other comprehensive income items: £000 £000
Current tax : :
Deferred tax current year charge : :
Tax reported outside of the income statement - -

c. Factors affecting total tax charge

The standard rate of UK corporation tax is 25% and this took effect from 1 April 2023. Deferred tax has been provided at 25%,
being the rate at which temporary differences are expected to reverse.

The tax assessed for the year is higher (2023: the same as) than the standard effective rate of corporation tax in the UK of
25% (2023: 19%). The tax charge is made up as follows:

2024 2023
£000 £000
Profit before taxation 2,925 -
Profit before taxation multiplied by standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 25% 731 .
(2023: 19%)
Fixed asset differences 133 -
Income not taxable for tax purposes (31) -
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes - -
Adjustments in respect of previous years - -
Remeasurement of deferred tax for changes in tax rates - -
Other items : :
Total tax charge for the year reported in the Income Statement 833 :
53 of 63

Registered Address: 7" Floor, Bridgewater House, 58-60 Whitworth Street, Manchester, M1 6LT

Transpennine Trains Limited
Notes to the Financial Statements

For the year ended 31 March 2024
9. Tangible assets

Right of use Assets

Plant and assets (Note under

equipment 19) construction Total

£000 £000 £000 £000
Cost
At 1 April 2023 - - - -
Transferred in (note 25) 41,436 - 1,339 42,775
Additions 442 80,182 1,119 81,743
Transfers from WIP 860 - (860) -
Remeasurement - - - -
Disposals : : : :
At 31 March 2024 42,738 80,182 1,598 124,518
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 April 2023 - - - -
Transferred in (note 25) 41,436 - - 41,436
Depreciation charged to Income Statement 196 33,831 - 34,027
Disposals : - - :
At 31 March 2024 41,632 33,831 - 75,463
Net book value
At 31 March 2023 - - : -
At 31 March 2024 1,106 46,351 1,598 49,055

Right of use assets comprise rolling stock, offices and other property leases.
10. Investments
. The Company held the following unlisted investments at 31 March 2024:
Country of No. of Class of Proportion
registration shares held share held

ATOC Limited UK 4 Ordinary (4p) 5%
Railway Settlement Plan Limited UK 1 Ordinary (4p) 5%
Rail Staff Travel UK 1 Ordinary (4p) 5%
NRES Limited UK 1 Ordinary (£1) 5%

The registered office address for all of the above entities is First Floor North, 1 Puddle Dock, London, England, EC4V 3DS.

The principal activity of the above companies is to provide a range of services to all UK passenger rail operators, each of
which has an equal share in the companies. The investments are held at fair value and any changes in the fair value are
recognised in the Income Statement.

11. Inventories

2024 2023
£000 £000
444 -

Raw material and consumables

54 of 63
Registered Address: 7" Floor, Bridgewater House, 58-60 Whitworth Street, Manchester, M1 6LT

Transpennine Trains Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements

For the year ended 31 March 2024

11.Inventories (cont.}

There is no material difference between the replacement value of inventories and their cost.

The cost of stock recognised as an expense and included in operating costs during the year amounted to £13, 173k.

12. Trade and other receivables: amounts falling due within one year

2024 2023
£000 £000
Trade receivables:
Rail Settlement Plan 18,516 -
Other trade receivables 26,752 -
45,268 :
Amounts owed by group undertakings 17,795 ; -
TRU funding 2,788 -
Value Added Tax receivable 9,779 -
Corporation tax receivable 376 -
Prepayments 7,260 -
Accrued income 2,184 -
85,450 -

Amounts due from group undertakings are unsecured and repayable on demand. No interest is payable on these amounts.

All trade and other receivables at the balance sheet date have been assessed for any expected credit losses. This assessment
confirmed any expected credit losses to be immaterial.

13. Trade and other payables

2024 2023
£000 £000
Amounts falling due within one year:
Trade payables
Rail Settlement Plan 3,796 -
Other trade payables 16,342 1
20,138 1
Deferred capital grant income 216 -
Amounts owed to group undertakings 3,762 -
Deferred season ticket revenue 558 :
Other taxation and social security 3,516 -
Other payables 462 -
Accruals 63,828 -
Deferred revenue 10,043 :
102,522 1
Amounts falling due after more than one year:
Deferred capital grant income 1,506 :

Amounts owed to group undertakings are unsecured and repayable on demand. These are non-interest bearing.

55 of 63
Registered Address: 7 Floor, Bridgewater House, 58-60 Whitworth Street, Manchester, M1 6LT

Transpennine Trains Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements

For the year ended 31 March 2024

13. Trade and other payables (cont.)

There is a loan facility in place with DfT OLR Holdings Limited. The balance included within amounts owed to group
undertakings in relation to this loan is £0 (2023: £nil). This loan attracts interest at Gilts +0.8%.

Deferred capital grant income relates to grant funding received from government related entities in respect of capital projects.

Deferred revenue and deferred season ticket revenue are contract liabilities under IFRS 15. All previous contract liabilities are
recognised as revenue in the year and the year-end deferred revenue consists of balances created before year end.

14. Provisions for liabilities

ROSCO Property Onerous Passenger Total
Note Dilaps Dilaps contract Comp
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Cif at 01 April 2023 - - - - -
Transferred in - predecessor
operator transfer 25 . 2,671 . . 2.671
Transferred in - Novated
ROSCO dilapidations from 1,877 - - - 1,877
manufacturer
Transferred in — Passenger
Compensation accrual . . . 1,100 1,100
Charged to the Income 1,516 970 12,601 - 15,087
Statement
Released in year - - - (1,100) (1,100)
Utilised in year (981) - (6,670) : (7,651)
Provision at 31 March 2024 2,412 3,641 5,931 - 11,984
Of which expected to fall due
within one year 465 1,723 5,931 - 8,119
Of which expected to falt due
after more than one year 1,947 1,918 - : 3,865
2.412 3,641 5,931 - 11,984

Dilapidations represent the estimated end of contract return liability on lease contracts for Rolling Stock and Property held
during the year. Property dilapidations were transferred into the company directly from the predecessor operator, Rolling Stock
Company (ROSCO) dilapidations were novated across with the Rolling Stock lease agreements and did not form part of the
transfer price as disclosed in note 24. Charges to the Income Statement represent the recognition on inception of dilapidations
liabilities associated with IFRS 16 ROU assets and also incremental recognition of dilapidation costs for non-IFRS 16 leases.

Utilisation of Dilapidations liabilities in the year occurred when agreed upon works as at transition were completed.

The Onerous Contract provision relates to the Mk 5 & Class 68 rolling stock fleets. A decision was made to take those fleets
out of service as at 10 December 2023. Consequently the full cost of the remaining lease contract was recognised as at that
date. The provision has been released against lease payments made. Both leases are expected to expire on 28 August 2024.

The Passenger Compensation provision represents a provision for potential underperformance payouts, transferred across
from the predecessor operator. It was released in the year.

56 of 63
Registered Address: 7" Floor, Bridgewater House, 58-60 Whitworth Street, Manchester, M1 6LT

Transpennine Trains Limited
Notes to the Financial Statements

For the year ended 31 March 2024

15. Deferred Tax assets

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current
tax liabilities and where the deferred taxes relate to the same fiscal authority. The amounts are as follows:

Deferred tax (assets)/liabilities: 2024 2023
£000 £000
Fixed assets (112) -
Tax credit and loss carry forward - -
Short-term provision 314 -
Deferred tax asset 202 -
The movement in deferred tax during the year was: 2024 2023
£000 £000
At opening financial year - -
Charge/(Credit) to Income Statement (note 8a) 202 -
Charge to OCI (note 8b) : -
At closing financial year 202 :
16. Called up share capital
2024 2023
£ £
Issued share capital not paid
Ordinary shares of £1 each 1 1

17. Retained earnings

A reconciliation of the movements in each reserve is shown in the Statement of Changes in Equity. The balance held in the
retained earnings reserve includes the accumulated retained profits of the Company.

18. Capital commitments

2024 2023
£000 £000
Contracted 3,645 -

Capital commitments relate to capital projects that the Company is committed to or has approved but not yet contracted as at
31 March, the cost to be incurred over the remaining capital project timeline.

57 of 63
Registered Address: 7" Floor, Bridgewater House, 58-60 Whitworth Street, Manchester, M1 6LT

Transpennine Trains Limited
Notes to the Financial Statements

For the year ended 31 March 2024
19. Lease liabilities and Right of use assets

Rolling Land and

Stock Buildings Total
Lease liabilities £000 £000 £000
Balance at 1 April 2023 - - -
Transferred in - - :
Additions 77,890 468 78,358
Interest 1,793 11 1,804
Repayment of lease liabilities (33,724) (198) (33,922)
Balance at 31 March 2024 45,959 281 46,240
Current tease liabilities 39,821 281 40,102
Non-current lease liabilities 6,138 - 6,138
Total lease liabilities 45,959 281 46,240
Right of use assets (Note 9)
Balance at 1 April 2023 - - -
Transferred in
Additions 79,478 704 80,182
Depreciation for the year (33,533) (298) 33,831)
Balance at 31 March 2024 45,945 406 46,351
Lease amounts recognised in operating costs:
Short term leases 8,841 149 8,990

Repayment in lease liabilities is equal to total cash outflow.

20. Retirement benefit/liability (net)

Information about the Scheme and the Company’s accounting policies
The Company operates a final salary pension scheme and is part of the Railways Pension Scheme, but its assets and liabilities
are identified separately from the remainder of the Scheme.

The Section is a shared cost arrangement whereby the Company is only responsible for a share of the cost. The figures
reported below therefore represent only the Company's share of costs, except that the tables reconciling the Section’s Defined

Benefit Obligations (DBO) and assets from start to end of the year are presented before the deduction of the members’ share
of the defined benefit cost, or the surplus or deficit. The exception is for the income statement items to be the Company's

share only in line with the Income Statement expense table. This is for simplicity of presentation and for consistency with the
DBO and assets quoted in the table showing the pension scheme liability or asset at the end of the year.

The Section is open to new members.

Employer contributions for the year ended 31 March 2024 are 11.63% and 10.07% of Section Pay for ex-Arriva Trains Northern
Section Category 60 Members and Category 62 Members respectively. They are 11.44% and 9.88% for ex- North Western
Trains section Category 60 Members and Category 62 Members respectively. These rates are based on a roll forward of the
31 December 2022 triennial valuation.

The trustees complete a full actuarial valuation triennially, separately for each section of the RPS, but the obligation is updated
annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method for financial reporting purposes. The level of
contributions paid by the Company is in line with the latest certified schedule of contributions (SOC) which was signed in 2022
using the 2013 SOC rates. Work to agree the 2022 triennial valuation was completed in the year and the changes in rates

58 of 63
Registered Address: 7" Floor, Bridgewater House, 58-60 Whitworth Street, Manchester, M1 6LT

Transpennine Trains Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements

For the year ended 31 March 2024

20. Retirement benefit/liability (net) (cont.)

were consulted with employees and the valuation completed prior to 31 March 2024, The 2016 and 2019 funding valuations
of the RPS have not yet been signed, this is expected to be completed in the coming year.

The discounted mean term of the Section’s DBO was 20 years at the end of the reporting year. All the assets are unquoted in
the financial statements.

The Company is exposed to a number of risks relating to the Section, including assumptions not being borne out in practice.
It should be noted that due to the nature of the franchise adjustment, the Company is effectively shielded from these risks
relating to the Section in the short term. Some of the most significant risks are as follows, although the list is not exhaustive:

« Asset volatility: There is a risk that a fall in asset values is not matched by a corresponding reduction in the value
placed on the Section's DBO. The Section holds a proportion of growth assets, which are expected to outperform
corporate and government bond yields in the long-term but gives exposure to volatility and risk in the short-term.

« Change in bond yields: A decrease in corporate bond yields will increase the value placed:on the Section’s DBO,
although this will be partially offset by an increase in the value of the Section's corporate bond holdings.

e — Inflation risk: The majority of the Section’s DBO is linked to inflation, where higher inflation will lead to a higher value
being placed on the DBO. Some of the Section's assets are either unaffected by inflation or loosely correlated with
inflation (e.g. growth assets), meaning that an increase in inflation will generally increase the deficit.

e Life expectancy: An increase in life expectancy will lead to an increased value being placed on the Section DBO.
Future mortality rates cannot be predicted with certainty.

31 March 2024 28 May 2023
Number Number
Membership data:
Active members 1,764 1,582
Deferred members 499 543
Pensioner members (including dependants) 496 435
31 March 2024 28 May 2023
£000 £000
Asset Data:
Growth assets 219,158 195,697
Other assets 42,336 41,719
Total asset value 261,494 237,416
59 of 63

Registered Address: 7" Floor, Bridgewater House, 58-60 Whitworth Street, Manchester, M1 6LT

Transpennine Trains Limited
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 March 2024

20. Retirement benefit/liability (net) (cont.)

Summary of assumptions:
Discount rate

Future price inflation (RPI measure)
Future price inflation (CPI measure)
Increase in pensions (CPI measure)
Pensionable salary increases

31 March 2024 28 May 2023
% pa % pa

4.85 5.4

3.1 3.15

2.8 28

2.8 3.15

3.1 2.8

The assumed average expectation of life in years for male and female at age 65 now and at age 65 in 20 years is as follows

(before postcode based adjustments for males):

Male currently aged 65
Male currently aged 45
Female currently aged 65

Female currently aged 45

Net defined benefit liability at end of year:

Defined benefit obligation at end of year

Active members

Deferred members

Pensioner members (incl. dependants)

Total defined benefit obligation

Fair value of assets at end of year

Adjustment for the members’ share of (surplus)/deficit

(Surplus)/Deficit expected to be recovered after end of current service period

Net defined benefit liability at end of the year

Income statement:

Employer's share of service cost

Franchise adjustment to service cost

Employer's share of administration cost

Total empioyer’s share of service cost

Employer's share of net interest on net defined benefit liability/ (asset)
Interest on current service period adjustment

Employer’s share of pension expense

60 of 63

31 March 2024 28 May 2023
20.0 20.4
21.4 21.8
22.4 22.8
23.9 24.3
31 March 2024 28 May 2023
£000 £000
(169,358) (137,268)
(33,598) (29,776)
(65,848) (63,640)
(268,804) (230,684)
261,494 237,416
2,924 (2,693)
4,386 (4,039)

2024

£000

6,416

(2,549)

377

4,244

(268)

268

4,244

Registered Address: 7" Floor, Bridgewater House, 58-60 Whitworth Street, Manchester, M1 6LT

Transpennine Trains Limited
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 March 2024

20. Retirement benefit/liability (net) (cont.)

Other comprehensive income (OCI):

Gain/(loss) due to demographic assumptions
Gain/(loss) due to financial assumptions

Gain/(loss) due to OBO experience

Return on plan assets greater/(less) than discount rate

Total gain/(loss) recognised in the OCI

2024
£000
629
(7,202)
(4,439)
11,012

The actuarial gain or loss due to financial assumptions includes movement in the deficit/ surplus expected to be recovered

after the end of the current service period.

Reconciliation of defined benefit obligation (DBO):

Opening defined benefit obligation
Transferred in at 28 May 2023
Service cost

Franchise adjustment to service cost
Interest cost on DBO

Interest on franchise adjustment
Employee contributions

Loss on DBO — experience

Gain on DBO —demographic assumptions
Gain on DBO - financial assumptions
Actual benefit payments

Closing defined benefit obligation

Reconciliation of value of assets:
Opening value of schemes’ assets
Transferred in at 28 May 2023

Interest income on assets

Retum on plan assets greater/(less) than discount rate
Employer contributions

Employee contributions

Actual benefit payments

Administration costs

Closing value of schemes’ assets

61 of 63

Registered Address: 7" Floor, Bridgewater House, 58-60 Whitworth Street, Manchester, M1 6LT

2024
£000
230,684
6,416
(2,549)
6,139
268
3,053
7,399
(1,048)
25,112

{6,670)

268,804

2024
£000

237,416
6,407
17,081
4,584
3,053
(6,670)
(377)

261,494

Transpennine Trains Limited
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 March 2024

20. Retirement benefit/liability (net) (cont.) Approximate
DBO sensitivity to significant actuarial assumptions: Sensitivity -change in DBO
£000
Discount rate -1.00% p.a. 58,700
+1.00% p.a. (44,500)
Price inflation* -1.00% p.a. (44,600)
+1.00% p.a. 57,900
Salary increases -0.25% p.a. (4,600)
+0.25% p.a. 4,700
Life expectancy -1 year (8,600)
+1 year 8,600

“Including consistent increases to RPI, salary growth and RPI/CPI related pension increase assumptions, where applicable.
The sensitivity figures are as at 31 March 2024. Note that these scenarios do not represent upper or lower bounds on what
could happen. The sensitivity ranges are in line with the prior year statements.

The expected future contributions including employee and employer contributions are £12,115k for the 2025 year based on
the 2022 schedule of contributions.

21. Related party disclosures

The Company is a 100% owned subsidiary of DfT OLR Holdings Limited. A funding deed exists between the Company and
DfT OLR Holdings Limited whereby a loan facility of £160m has been provided to the Company. The facility term ends six
months after termination of the Service Agreement. As at the 31 March 2024, the Company had a receivable of £14,445k
(2023: £nil) due from and a payable of £236k (2023: £nit) due to DfT OLR Holdings Limited.

The Company operates a passenger rail service franchise under licence under a Service Agreement with the Secretary of
State for Transport. Under the Service Agreement the Company is to receive a service agreement subsidy from the
Department for Transport (DfT), which was £174,519k in the year (2023: £nil). The receivable due from the DfT as at 31 March
2024 was £12,429k (2023: Enil). Network Rail is one of Company's main industry stakeholders, owned by the Secretary of
State for Transport. Transactions between them and the Company are at arms-length and are not classed as related party
transactions.

During the year the net cost of goods and services purchased from and sold to Network Rail was £21,360k (2023: Enil). The
bulk of the costs are for station and fixed track access, netted off against schedule 4 and schedule 8 compensation. £28,299k
was also received from Network Rail as compensation for costs incurred supporting the Transpennine Route Upgrade project.

Capitat project funding of £1,846k was received during the year (2023: Enil). As at the 31 March 2024, balances with Network
Rail included receivables £8,546k (2023: Enil) and payables £6,980k (2023: Enil).

The following additional related party transactions occurred during the year:

Network

Rail DOHL NTL LNER

£000 £000 £000 £000
2023
Goods/services (purchased)/ sald to . . . -
Payables balance at 31 March 2023 - - - -
Receivables balance at 31 March 2023 - - - -
2024
Goods/services (purchased)/ sald to (21,360) (753) 427 (1,965)
Payables balance at 31 March 2024 (6,980) (236) (419) (3,106)
Receivables balance at 31 March 2024 8,546 14,445 3,181 170

62 of 63

Registered Address: 7" Floor, Bridgewater House, 58-60 Whitworth Street, Manchester, M1 6LT

Transpennine Trains Limited
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 March 2024

21.Related party disclosures (cont.)

The above additional related parties are companies that the Company and intercompany directors also hold directorships in.
For transactions with British Transport Police (BTP), please refer to Note 3.

There were no other related party transactions during the year (2023: none).

22. Ultimate parent undertakings

The Company is a wholly owned subsidiary of DfT OLR Holdings Limited, a company registered in England and Wales (number
07141122). The Company's ultimate parent undertaking and controlling party is the Secretary of State for Transport. The
immediate and ultimate parent undertaking and controlling party of DfT OLR Holdings Limited is the Secretary of State for
Transport. DfT OLR Holdings Limited is the parent undertaking of the smallest and largest group of undertakings to consolidate
these financial statements.

The financial statements of DfT OLR Holdings Limited can be obtained from Waterloo General Offices, 3rd Floor Walker Suite,
Waterloo Station, London SE1 8SW.

23. Contingent liability

A legal matter has been raised and the court is considering whether certain specific offences have been prosecuted in error
using the Single Justice Procedure, and this may impact the company. The legal proceedings are at an early stage and at the
balance sheet date there is no way to reliably estimate the value of any possible liability or the extent of any obligation arising
in respect of the Company. The Company is working proactively with legal advice to assess the extent of any possible liability
or obligation arising on the Company.

24. Post balance sheet events

A General Election has been called for 4 July 2024. At the time of signing these financial statements the result is not known.
However, the directors have assessed that the outcome cannot be assessed with certainty and indeed the subsequent impact
of any outcome on the Group, and hence the basis of preparation of the financial statements remains appropriate.

25. Transfer of First TransPennine Express Limited (FTPE) assets and liabilities

On 27 May 2023, FTPE ceased operations and the Company began operating under a Service Agreement with the Department
for Transport. On the date of transfer, the Franchise assets and liabilities were transferred to the Company. The net
consideration received by the Company was £14,033,431 and was settled during the year.

The table below sets out the amounts which have been recognised upon transfer.

28 May 2023
Transfer value
£000
Agreed value - Settled
Tangible Fixed assets 1,339
Inventories 553
Prepayments 2,050
Other receivables 33
Cash on hand 131
Dilapidation , (2,671)
Deferred income (10,808)
Other payables (4,659)
Net (liability) (14,033)
Cash consideration receivable 14,033
Total cash settlement during the year 14,033

63 of 63
Registered Address: 7" Floor, Bridgewater House, 58-60 Whitworth Street, Manchester, M1 6LT


