Docusign Envelope ID: C68EF8BC-B4CA-4C33-84EF-DD81E5560C5C.

TUI UK Limited

Annual Report and financial statements

for the financial year ended 30 September 2024
Company number 2830117

*ADZBCK7D*
28/03/2025 #118
COMPANIES HOUSE

FRIDAY

Docusign Envelope ID: C68EF8BC-B4CA-~4C33-84EF-DD81E5560C5C

TUI UK Limited
Contents

Page
Directors and other information 2
Strategic Report 3-27
Directors’ Report ° 28
Directors’ responsibilities statement 29
Independent auditor’s report . . 30-33
Statement of Comprehensive Income 34
Statement of Financial Position . © 35-36
Statement of Changes in Equity 37
Notes to the financial statements 38-75

Docusign Envelope ID: C68EF8BC-B4CA-4C33-84EF-DD81E5560C5C

TUI UK Limited

Directors and other information

Directors

Registered Office

Independent Auditor

Bankers

Registered number

JL Rolfe

B Quinton Smith
ND Swanson
CRG Logan

Wigmore House
Wigmore Lane
Luton
Bedfordshire
LU2 STN

Deloitte LLP
Statutory auditor .
1 New Street Square
London

EC4A 3HQ

United Kingdom

Citibank N.A
Canada Square
Canary Wharf
London

E14 5LB

2830117

Docusign Envelope ID: C68EF8BC-B4CA-4C33-84EF-DD81E5560C5C

TUI UK Limited
Strategic Report for the financial year ended 30 September 2024

The Directors present their Strategic Report on TUI UK Limited (the “Company”) for the financial year ended 30
September 2024,

Principal activity

The Company's principal activities during the financial year continued to be the provision of package holidays
and the sale of other related travel services. {t also provides corporate services for the TUI AG group of companies
(the “Group”) as a subsidiary undertaking within the Group. The Company expects this to continue for the
foreseeable future.

Review of the business and future outlook
The Directors present their business review for the year ended 30 September 2024.

The Company continues to benefit from a strong brand reputation, loyal customer base, and a competitive
offering of touristic services. The Company operates in a dynamic market environment, influenced directly or
indirectly by external factors such as changes in exchange rates, changes in key commodity prices such as jet fuel
and inflation-based cost-of-living pressures which may impact customers propensity to purchase the Company’s
services. Key risks facing the Company include competitive pressures and operational risks linked to the
fulfilment of the products/services offered to customers. Further information about risks and uncertainties facing
the Company has been included in the principal risks and uncertainties section of this report.

Total revenue for the year was £6,092m (2023: £5,709m), representing a 7% increase compared to the previous
year. The Company achieved a loss before tax of £61m (2023: £95m). The financial performance of the Company
during the year was primarily influenced by continued improvements in consumer demand which resulted in
record revenues which helped to partially recover inflationary cost base pressures. The CrowdStrike IT outage in
July 2024 resulted in flight cancelations and delays across the UK, which negatively impacted the financial results
of the Company. From the start of the year, the Company no longer charged fellow group undertakings for
customer services delivered by the contact centre operated by the Company. This resulted in a £13m decrease
to profit compared to the prior year.

At the year-end, the Company's net liabilities were £654m (2023: £529m). The Company held cash and cash
equivalents of £90m (2023: £87m) and had access to additional funds via the TU! AG group cash pooling
arrangements in which the Company participates, thus ensuring sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities as they
fall due.

No interim or final dividends were paid or declared during the year or prior year.

The average monthly number of staff employed by the Company in the financial year was 2,788 (2023 restated:
2,533). Refer to Note 8 of the financial statements for details of the restatement. Their expertise and dedication
are critical to the success of the Company. Continual investment in employee development and support remains
a priority of the Company. The Company, alongside its fellow group undertakings based in the UK & Ireland
(“UK&I”) have contributed to various community support and engagement activities during the year through the
TUI Foundation and other local initiatives. Further information has been included in the Section 172(1) section
of this report.

The Company remains aware of the environmental risks and opportunities posed by climate change and has
implemented measures to mitigate its impact, further information has been included in the Non-Financial and
Sustainability Information Statement section of this report.

Docusign Envelope ID: C68EF8BC-B4CA-4C33-84EF-DD81E5560C5C

TUI UK Limited
Strategic Report for the financial year ended 30 September 2024

Key performance indicators :

The Directors and the Executive Committee of TUI AG manage the Group’s operations on a divisional basis. The
operating activities of the Company are intrinsically linked to those of other trading companies within the Group,
as aircraft seats are purchased from TUI Airways, hotel beds are purchased from the Hotels & Resorts segment
of the business, cruise holidays are purchased from Marella Cruises, and the Company's products are sold
through the TUI Retail store network. This results in a highly integrated operation spanning TUI UK & Ireland as
well as the wider TUI AG Group. The Company forms part of the Northern Region of the Markets and Airlines
segment of the Group.

The development, performance and position of the Northern Region of the Markets and Airlines segment of the
Group, which includes the Company, are discussed in the TUI AG 2024 Annual Report within "Segmental
performance" on pages 62-66 and in the "Segment reporting" disclosures on pages 199-202, which does not
form part of this report. The Group's annual report can be obtained from the sources set out in Note 30 of the
accompanying financial statements.

To effectively measure the development, performance and position of the Company, the following Key
Performance Indicators (KPIs) are of most relevance.

Financial year Financial year
ended ended
30 September 30 September
2024 2023

Non-Financial Key Performance Indicators
Passengers 6.7m 6.3m

Financial Key Performance Indicators

Net liabilities £(654)m £(529)m
Loss before tax £(61)m £(95)m

Future developments

The travel industry continues to face challenges. Cost inflation (driven by high energy costs and labour supply
shortages), high interest rates and foreign exchange fluctuations all impact supplier cost bases, as well as putting
a squeeze on household income and hence consumer sentiment. In this context customers value brands that
they can depend on and which deliver choice and flexibility in configuring the right product for them.

The Company expects another good performance in the financial year 2025, on the back of a positive trading
outlook and improvements in the hedged foreign exchange position. Wider use of online distribution, the
provision of dynamic production capacities for flights and accommodation and the investments in digitalisation
are expected to further improve the results.

Financial risk management and going concern

The Company’s activities expose it to a number of financial risks including credit risk, cash flow risk and liquidity
risk. The treasury function is managed centrally in the Group and supports the business activities and financial
risks faced by the Company. This support includes setting and monitoring hedging policies in the Group,
centralising the Group’s cash management systems, reporting and monitoring daily cash balances and
forecasting cash requirements for the foreseeable future. The cash flows of the Company are managed centrally
by the TUI UK & Ireland tour operator businesses, as are relationships with principal suppliers. Consequently, the
majority of the Company’s net cash inflow during the financial year relates to intercompany movements and
increased revenue from customers. The use of financial derivatives is governed by the policies of TUL AG, which
provide principles on the use of financial derivatives to manage these risks. The Company does not use derivative
financial instruments for speculative purposes. Further information relating to financial risk management can be
found within the principal risks and uncertainties section of this report.

Docusign Envelope ID: C68EF8BC-B4CA-4C33-84EF-DD81E5560C5C

TUI UK Limited
Strategic Report for the financial year ended 30 September 2024

Financial risk management and going concern (continued)

In March 2025, TUI AG, agreed to provide financial support to the Company in order that it can continue to meet
its liabilities as they fall due, for the period of at least 12 months from the approval date of the financial
statements. As with any company placing reliance on other group entities for financial support, the Directors
acknowledge that there can be no certainty that this support will continue although, at the date of approval of
these financial statements they have a reasonable expectation that it will. As described in Note 2, the Directors
have prepared the financial statements on a going concern basis.

Employee invoivement and communication

We have engaged colleagues with great ideas and strive to involve our people with matters impacting them. We
receive feedback through employee opinion surveys, which form an important strategic tool across the Company,
as they provide honest feedback that can drive business improvements. We value two-way communication,
having a significant number of proactive employee forums in place, to ensure that we have an on-going dialogue
to involve colleagues with matters that are important to them. This is facilitated through elected employee
representatives and, directly, in team meetings and larger briefings. Further information in respect of “Our
people”, can be found in the Section 172(1) statement of this report.

Engagement with suppliers, customers and others
A summary of how the Directors have had regard to the need to foster the Company’s business relationships
with suppliers, customers and others has been included in the Section 172(1) statement of this report.

Disabled employees

The policy of the Company is to give full and fair consideration to applications for employment from disabled
persons having regard to their particular aptitudes and abilities. Whenever possible the Company continues to
employ those employees who have become disabled. The Company makes arrangements for the training and
career development of all disabled employees.

Principal risks and uncertainties

Successful management of existing and emerging risks is critical to the long-term success of TUI’s business and
meeting strategic objectives. At TUI, managing risk is not limited to identifying only those developments that
could jeopardise the companies continued existence, it also includes the active management of all other material
risks.

Risk management is an integral component of the Group’s Corporate Governance and every business and
function in the Group is required to adopt the Group Risk Management policy. The principal risks and
uncertainties of the Company are considered collectively on a UK&I basis by the UK&I Risk Committee and the
UK& Risk Champion, who promotes the implementation of the risk management policy and ensures its effective
application. The Risk Champions are in close contact with the Group Risk team and are critical both in ensuring
that the risk management system functions effectively, and in implementing a culture of continuous awareness
and improvement in risk management and reporting.

The process of risk identification, assessment and response is continuous and embedded within the day-to-day
operations of the businesses and functions. It is consolidated, reported, and reviewed at varying levels
throughout the Group on at least a quarterly basis.

Due to the overall improved risk situation of the group, the risks included in the previous year, ‘volatility of input
cost’, ‘inability to attract & retain talent,’ and ‘legal & regulatory compliance,’ are no longer principal risks for the
Company. Of the remaining main risks, the seasonal cash flow-risk has significantly reduced compared to
previous year, while the other risks are assessed as unchanged.

Docusign Envelope 1D: C68EF8BC-B4CA-4C33-84EF -DD81E5560C5C

TUI UK Limited
Strategic Report for the financial year ended 30 September 2024

Principal risks and uncertainties (continued)
The principal risks the Company is exposed to are as follows:

. Financial: The Company's activities expose it to financial risk; principally liquidity risk, credit risk and cash
flow risk.

To mitigate liquidity risk, the Company's financial management is centrally operated by TUI AG which acts
as the Group’s internal bank. The financial management goals include ensuring sufficient liquidity for TUI
AG and its subsidiaries and limiting financial risks from fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, commodity
prices and interest rates as well as default risks associated with treasury activities. The Group operates
liquidity safeguards which have the following two components:

In the course of the annual Group planning process, the Group draws up a multi-annual finance
budget, from which long-term financing and refinancing requirements are derived. This
information and financial market observation to identify refinancing opportunities, create a basis
for decision-making, enabling appropriate financing instruments for the long-term funding of the
Company to be adopted at an early stage; and

« The Group uses syndicated credit facilities and bilateral bank loans as well as its liquid funds to
secure sufficient short-term cash reserves. Through intra-group cash pooling, the cash surpluses
of individual Group companies are used to finance the cash requirements of other Group
companies. A weekly rolling liquidity planning system is the basis for arrangements with banks.

Regarding credit risk, the majority of trade receivable and other receivable balance is due from subsidiary
undertakings of the Group and monies held as security by the regulator and financial providers, which have
a low risk of default.

Regarding cash flow risk, the Company recognises that tourism is an inherently seasonal business with the
majority of profits earned during the European summer months. Cash flows are similarly seasonal with the
cash high occurring in the early summer as advance payments and final balances are received from
customers, with the cash low occurring in the winter as liabilities are settled with many suppliers after the
summer season. There is the risk that if we do not adequately manage cash balances through the cash low
period this could impact on the Group’s liquidity and ability to settle liabilities as they fall due whilst
ensuring that financial covenants are maintained.

Cash flow risk is mitigated by:

« Regularly producing both short and long-term cash forecasts throughout the year;
Continuing to maintain high-quality relationships with the Group’s key financiers. As of 30
September 2024, the Group has complied with all financial covenants;

e¢ A focus on holiday experiences is helping to reduce the seasonality risk, as hotels, cruises and
destination experiences have a more evenly distributed profit and cash profile across the year; and

« Differing seasonality profiles across the Group’s varied brands and markets, has reduced cashflow
risks e.g. winter is a more important season for the Nordic and Canadian markets and the UK brand
Crystal Ski, has a winter-based profile.

Details of the Group’s financial management strategies are included on pages 34-49 in the Risk Report of
the FY24 TUI AG Annual Report.

e¢ Business transformation: Our focus is on further developing our business operations and improving the
customer experience by providing attractive, intuitive and consistent customer service. There is a risk of
ineffective execution, arising from various factors including the lacking prioritisation of those initiatives with
the greatest impact for TUI and a lack of resource for a timely delivery. Failure to deliver a successful
transformation can impact our competitiveness and our ability to provide a superior customer experience
as well as to deliver on quality and operational efficiency.

Docusign Envelope iD: C68EF8BC-B4CA-4C33-84EF-DD81E5560C5C

TUL UK Limited
Strategic Report for the financial year ended 30 September 2024

Principal risks and uncertainties (continued)

Business transformation (continued):
This risk is mitigated by:
e Regular updates on and discussion of strategic topics and initiatives at the Group Executive
Committee (“GEC”), Executive Board and Supervisory Board;
Allocation of resource to strategic initiatives, including product owners, project teams and budget;
* Approval of business cases relating to strategic initiatives by the appropriate body (in accordance
with the Group’s Investment Approvals Policy);
e Strategic initiatives and Key Performance Indicators (“KPIs”) incorporated into Budget and Three
Year Plan (“3YP”) process;
_ © — Project reporting tool and reporting of strategic KPIs in the monthly Operating and Financial review
meeting ensures enhanced visibility of the progress of major projects as a matter of routine; and
e Centralised management structures to oversee the Markets and Airline businesses.

Previously the Company identified “Lack of integration and flexibility within operations and IT systems” as
a principal risk. This risk has evolved and is now replaced by this principal risk.

Changing customer preferences: Travel spending is discretionary, and customers have a variety of travel
options and offerings to choose from. There is a risk if we do not effectively communicate the benefits of
pre-packaged holiday trips to our customers and if we fail to expand our offerings to include individual
components and flexible pricing options.

Failure to respond quickly to shifts in market trends and changing customer preferences could result in a
loss of competitiveness and a reduction in demand for‘our products.

This risk is mitigated by:

e Our integrated business model enables us to respond robustly to competitive threats;

* Developing new concepts and services which match the needs and preferences of our customers;

e Leveraging our scale to keep costs down and prices competitive;

e Promoting the benefits of travelling with a globally operating tour operator to increase customer
confidence and peace of mind; and

e Evaluation of the current and future leisure experiences market landscape, based on analysis of

. consumer needs, development of supply, emerging trends, innovation, considerations of

sustainability and resource availability. :

Previously the Company identified “Reduction in customer demand” as a principal risk. This risk has evolved
and is now replaced by this principal risk. :

Cyber security: There is an evolving risk due to increasing digitalisation, emerging technologies, growing
global cyber-crime activity, and intensifying regulation. Our consolidation under the TUI brand and
increasing dependence on online sales and customer care increases our exposure and the potential worst-
case impact of a successful cyber-attack and/or data breach. If we do not ensure we have the appropriate
level of security controls in place this could have a significant negative impact on our key stakeholders,
associated reputational damage and potential for financial implications. Our responsibility is to protect the
confidentiality, integrity and availability of the data we process for our customers, employees, and
businesses.

Docusign Envelope ID: C68EF8BC-B4CA-4C33-84EF-DD81E5860C5C

TUI UK Limited
Strategic Report for the financial year ended 30 September 2024

Principal risks and uncertainties (continued)

Cyber security (continued):
This risk is mitigated by:

Ensuring that the existing and future IT systems are secure by design and are protected against
denial-of-service attacks that could impact system availability, that exposure to vulnerability is
managed and user access is monitored;

Colleagues are made aware of information security risks through appropriate training, awareness
campaigns and lessons learned from real or simulated cyber incidents;

TUI’s Information Security Management System ensures a coordinated, standards based, proactive
approach to the identification and management of information security risk across the Group with
security integrated into all software development and release processes; and

Security risk assessment methodology, controls, policy, and guidelines have been updated to
include provisions for the assessment and secure use of Generative Al. Maturity and coverage of
our Security Operations Centre and platform is continuously increasing to anticipate, detect and
respond to cyber-attacks and information security incidents.

Sustainable tourism: Our focus is to reduce the environmental impact of our operations and promote
responsible social policies and outcomes both directly through our own business and indirectly via our
influence over our supply chain partners.

There is a risk that TUI and our suppliers may not succeed in driving social and environmental improvements
across our operations, potentially failing to uphold our corporate and social responsibility standards and
failing to influence some destinations to manage tourism more sustainably. If we do not maximise our
positive impact on destinations and minimise the negative impact to the extent that our stakeholders
expect, this could result in a decline in stakeholder confidence, reputational damage, and reduction in
demand for our products and services.

This risk is mitigated by:

The Group Sustainability department sets clear goals, priorities, and the framework to deliver the
TUI Sustainability Agenda. The TUI Sustainability Agenda’s purpose is to set and drive industry
standards, ambitious goals and develop transformation roadmaps and frameworks for all parts of
the business while actively engaging colleagues, partners and customers. This is key, as the Group
is a vertically integrated tourism business, whose operations are intrinsically linked, as the
companies within the Group, use each other as part of their supply chain;

The Group operates one of the most carbon efficient airlines in Europe with continued investment
in new, more efficient aircraft and cruise ships. TUI’s ambition is to achieve net-zero emissions
across all our operations and supply chain by 2050 at the latest;

The Group maintains ISO 14001 certifications in all TUI Airlines and TUI Cruise businesses and
applies the Global Sustainable Tourism Council Criteria (GSTC) to TU! experiences; and

Enabling customers to make more sustainable holiday choices e.g. TUI’s Green & Fair label.

At a company level, the sustainability risks face by the Company and their mitigations are disclosed in the
Non-Financial and Sustainability Information Statement section of this report.

Docusign Envelope ID: C68EF8BC-B4CA-4C33-84EF-DD81E5560C5C

TUI UK Limited
Strategic Report for the financial year ended 30 September 2024

Principal risks and uncertainties (continued)

e Supply chain dependencies: Due to the complex nature of the products and services offered, touristic
service providers face an inherent risk of failure. There is a risk that our core operations would be disrupted
if key suppliers were to fail. This risk is increased by the industry practice of making prepayments to hoteliers
to secure capacity in advance. ,

The risk is mitigated by:
« Use of reputable and financially stable suppliers, particularly in areas where a single supplier is
used to provide a service;
« Owned and joint venture partner hotels forming a substantial part of our program; and
« Strong working relationships with all key suppliers while developing adequate controls around
their operative ability and regularly monitoring supplier performance against agreed terms and
conditions.

© Geopolitical disruption: There is an inherent risk of adverse events in operational areas. This can include
natural disasters such as hurricanes and wildfires like those experienced over recent years, outbreaks of
disease, pandemics, or geopolitical events such as terrorism or political unrest.

There is the risk of operational disruption and additional costs if such an event occurs. These events could
also contribute to a decline in demand for products and services in the impacted area(s).

These risks are mitigated by having well-established crisis management procedures and emergency
response plans and business continuity plans. Crisis Management Planning and Coordination is centralised
within the Group Security, Health and Safety & Crisis (“Group SHSC”) centre of excellence which provides
centralised frameworks, personnel reporting structures, incident management systems and crisis
communications plans to the Group. In the event of an adverse event occurring, TUI can offer alternative
options to our customers from our wide destination portfolio away from the affected area if necessary.

e Climate change: Refer to the Non-Financial and Sustainability Information Statement section within this
report.

« Security, health & safety: The safety and security of customers and colleagues is of paramount importance
to any holiday and travel service provider. There is the risk of accidents, incidents or events occurring
causing illness, injury or death to customers or colleagues whilst on a TUI holiday or provided activity or
service. In addition to the harm caused to the affected individual(s), this could result in disruption to
operational activities, reputational damage to the business and/or financial liabilities through loss of
earnings, lack of demand and/or legal claims being brought by the affected parties.

The established Group SHSC centre of excellence oversees safety and security risk management activities,
delivering alignment and consistency across the TUI Group. Data-led, risk-based Safety and Security Risk
Management systems are in place and are subject to continuous review / improvement with Safety and
Security Risk Management clauses included in supplier contracts and appropriate insurance policies in place
to mitigate any financial losses.

During the year, the Directors managed these risks and uncertainties of the Company in co-ordination with its
fellow subsidiaries in the Group and the Directors of the ultimate parent undertaking, TUI AG. Further
information on these risks, together with how these are mitigated, can be found on pages 34-49 of the TUI AG
2024 Annual Report. Details of where these financial statements can be obtained are in Note 30 of these financial
statements.

Dacusign Envelope ID: C68EF8BC-B4CA-4C33-84EF-DD81E5560C5C

TUI UK Limited
Strategic Report for the financial year ended 30 September 2024

Section 172(1) statement

The Companies (Miscellaneous Reporting) Regulations 2018 requires the Company to include a section 172(1)
statement in the strategic report which describes how the Directors of the Company have complied with their
duty to promote the success of the Company for the benefit of its members, whilst having regard to the matters
set out in s172(1) (a)-(f). The operating activities of the Company are intrinsically linked to that of other
companies within the TUI Group. Given the integrated nature of operations across the Group, the governance
structure reflects this. A Group Executive Committee (“GEC”) exists at a TUI AG Group level, with a local executive
board in place for each operational entity.

During the financial year the Directors of the Company, both individually and together, acted in a way they
consider, in good faith, would promote the success of the Company for the benefit of its stakeholders, based on
information available to them at the time.

The Company regards the key stakeholders relevant to its success to be our People, Customers, Suppliers,
Communities and environment and Shareholders. The Directors have complied with the requirements set out in
Section 172(1) (a) to (f) of the UK Companies Act 2006 in the following ways:

. Our people. Our employees make a key contribution to TUl’s success. To secure this success we have
developed our People Strategy, the aim of which is reflected in our vision to be Digital, Engaging, and
Inclusive: .

* Digital: We use digital tools to ease the workload for our employees, promote innovation and enhance
efficiency. In the financial year under review, for instance, we launched the use of Artificial
Intelligence (All).

¢ Engaging: We invest in the development of employees and qualify our leaders. Examples include our
Listening Strategy which promotes a culture of regular exchange and steady improvements in the
work environment.

Inclusive: We acknowledge difference and bring global and local teams together. We create a work
environment aimed to ensure that our employees feel valued and respected.

The Company promotes the physical and mental health of all its employees. A Group-wide committee of
health representatives regularly discusses best practices, ongoing projects and plans for health-promoting
measures. Against the backdrop of global challenges, especially in relation to mental health issues, an even
stronger focus is being placed on common targets and establishing stringent processes.

Employees have access to a dedicated wellbeing intranet site at TUI. This offers a wealth of benefits and
information to help colleagues deal with events and issues in everyday life, including support and resources
available through the Employee Assistance Programme, access to a private medical health app and
Occupational Health services and ABTA’s Lifeline charity trust for help when its needed most.

Reward offered by the Company consists of various components. Depending on the function concerned, a
fixed salary may go hand in hand with variable components, reflecting individual performance and
promoting the sustainable participation of employees in the Company’s long-term targets.

TUI continue to enforce and promote modern slavery compliance in accordance with the Modern Slavery
Act 2015 and as part of wider general good practice. Each year, a statement is published on progress in this
area in line with the relevant requirements. This statement can be found at: https://www. tuigroup.com/en-
en/responsibility/Human-Rights-and-Modern-Slavery/UK-Modern-Slavery-Act

Further information can be found on pages 87-94 of the TUI AG Annual Report 2024 which can be found on
the TUI AG website www.tuigroup.com/en-en.

10

Docusign Envelope ID: C68EF8BC-B4CA-4C33-84EF-DD81E5560C5C

TUI UK Limited
Strategic Report for the financial year ended 30 September 2024

Section 172(1) statement (continued)

e Customers. We place our guests and their individual wishes and needs at the centre of our organisation to
offer them differentiated and consistent experiences. We aim to increase customer loyalty and tap into
new customer segments, as satisfied guests are a decisive factor for the TU! Group’s long-term growth. Our
goal is to continuously adapt the customer experience to individual needs and to further personalise it.

Our integrated business model allows us to accompany our guests through the entire travel experience
from booking, arrival, hotel stay and cruise to local activities and excursions — digitally and personally. The
digital travel experience is complemented by the personal support of our employees, which our guests
experience in our travel agencies, aircraft, and hotels, on our ships and in the destination.

The long-term success of the Company is dependent on the satisfaction of our customers, and we regularly
seek feedback from our customers through various channels. To evaluate satisfaction, the Company focuses
on customer satisfaction scores (CSAT) and net promoter scores (NPS). CSAT and NPS scores provide us with
valuable insights into the areas where we succeed and areas where there is opportunity to improve. This
continuous feedback enables us to continually improve the experience for our customers.

The insight gained from customer feedback is used to implement actions to enhance the overall customer
experience. These actions include staff training programs, service enhancements, and innovations in the
products and services offered by the Company. During the year, a dedicated Customer Day was held for all
colleagues to attend talks and workshops which promoted the importance of customer feedback and
showcased examples of ongoing customer focused initiatives. The ‘Connect the Makers’ scheme has
continued to operate during the year enabling colleagues to join customer facing teams to experience first-
hand what our customers love and where we can improve, and to gain insights that can spark innovative
ideas and solutions for customers.

The travel experience is about relaxing or discovering and exploring something new. However, the travel
experience can also entail a wide range of risks. As far as possible, our activities aim to minimise these risks
for customers. The Company takes a risk-based approach to prevent intentional risks to the well-being of
our customers, such as security matters. TUI continually monitors and analyses safety-critical developments
in destinations and discusses response measures with the markets and other involved business areas.

TUI operates Group-wide crisis and business continuity protocols and governance modules. Experienced
crisis managers work within a team to cover areas such as customer, commercial, communications and
insurance management. These experts across the Group facilitate a fast, flexible response to all levels of
crisis. Appropriate reporting and coordination within the Group ensures that management is updated on
all key incidents and developments and can immediately take decisions if necessary.

Ethical and sustainability concerns are increasingly a factor in consumer choices. Embedding sustainability
into our brand and raising customer awareness are key priorities. We want to stimulate demand for more
sustainable holidays by showing customers how these contribute to a better holiday experience. This is
being undertaken by:

¢ Promoting social and environmental standards through certification such as Global Sustainable
Tourism Council (“GSTC”).

e Use our self-developed TUlPartners.com platform to support our many partners (hotels, tour,
activity and transport providers) in their transformation towards more sustainable tourism. It
offers them information and guidance on current issues such as sustainability, health, workplace
safety and successful sustainability certification.

«© Suppliers. Our supply chain covers thousands of suppliers, across the globe. We believe that a shared
commitment to conducting business with integrity ensures sustainable, long-lasting relationships where all
parties benefit. We ask our business partners and suppliers to support the principles set out in our TUL
Supplier Code of Conduct and to promote them throughout their own supply chain. Our Supplier Code of
Conduct sets out the minimum standards we expect from suppliers covering human rights and labour laws,
anti-bribery and anti-corruption, environmental impacts and support for local communities.

11

Docusign Envelope ID: C68EF8BC-B4CA-4C33-84EF -DD81E5560C5C

TUI UK Limited
Strategic Report for the financial year ended 30 September 2024

Section 172(1) statement (continued)

Suppliers (continued). We aiso:

e expect our hotel partners to implement sustainability certifications recognised by the Global
Sustainable Tourism Council (“GSTC”) comprising standards for human rights, child protection,
social welfare.

« apply the GSTC criteria to tours and activities in the destinations.

« have set out our activities and the measures undertaken in our business operations and our supply
chain to prevent human rights violations as per our Human Rights Policy Statement, published on
TUI AG’s website.

require our business partners by contract, to observe all national and international anti-corruption
laws applicable to the supplier relationship.

Community and environment. Economic, environmental, and social sustainability is a fundamental
management principle for continually enhancing the value of the Company. We firmly believe that
sustainable development is critical for long term economic success. Together with our many partners
around the world, we are actively committed to shaping a sustainable future for tourism.

The Company has a governance structure in place that ensures that sustainability issues, along with climate-
related risks and opportunities are assessed and actioned on relevant levels. A team of experienced
sustainability professionals are working in close collaboration with senior management to ensure that TUI’s
business and sustainability activities are closely aligned.

Our Sustainability Agenda builds on tourism as a force for good. Together with our partners we continue to
promote the positive effects of tourism on local communities, reduce our ecological footprint and create
more sustainable holiday products for our customers. Our mission is to be mindful of the importance of
travel and tourism for many countries in the world and for the people living there and partner with these
countries and other stakeholders to actively shape a more sustainable future for tourism.

Our Agenda is founded on three priorities:
. People. Empower people in the destinations and TUi employees to actively drive sustainable
transformation.
° Planet. Reduce TUI’s ecological footprint.
e Progress. Partner with others to launch initiatives for the sustainable transformation of our sector.

The Group’s targets include achieving net-zero emissions across our operations and supply chain by 2050
at the latest, near-term science-based targets for emission reduction and enabling our customers to make
more sustainable holiday choices. Please see the “Principal risks and uncertainties — Sustainable tourism”
section of the Strategic report, for further details.

The Sustainability Agenda supports the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 17 global
goals to fight inequality, end poverty and protect our planet by 2030 — and defines appropriate measures
to contribute to their achievement.

We seek to provide our colleagues with the knowledge and skills required to become sustainability
changemakers. Digital training modules offer insights into a wide range of sustainability topics, from energy
and fuels to social impacts and the circular economy and are designed for all employees.

Further information and details on the TUI Group Sustainability strategy and implementation can be found

on pages 78-87 of the TUI AG Annual Report 2024 which can be found on the TU! AG website
www.tuigroup.com/en-en.

12

Docusign Envelope ID: C68EF8BC-B4CA-4C33-84EF-DD81E5560C5C

TUL UK Limited
Strategic Report for the financial year ended 30 September 2024

Section 172(1) statement (continued)

° Business conduct. Compliance with many national and international laws and rules as well as internal
policiés is essential. However, our understanding of Compliance goes beyond respecting laws and
regulations. Behaviour violating integrity principles may not only have legal consequences but can also
result in lasting damage to the reputation of our Company. :

The Compliance Management System aims to promote integrity and prevent potential misconduct, making
liability risks manageable for the Company and its employees and thereby protecting the Company's
reputation. It is a fundamental component in our commitment to corporate, environmental, and social
responsibility.

TUI’s Integrity Passport is binding for all employees, from Executive Board members to trainees and for all
managed Group companies and serves as the guiding principle for our people. It provides orientation in key
areas of people’s day-to-day work and in conflict situations: fair competition, anti-bribery and anti-
corruption, appropriate gifts and hospitality, protection of our business secrets, data privacy, handling
conflicts of interest, prevention of insider trading, maintaining proper accounts and financial records, anti-
money laundering, trade restrictions, respectful dealings with each other, sustainability, and public
communications about TUI and how to raise a concern.

As a regulated travel business, the Company’s general counsel works closely with experts to ensure the
Board is aware of the relevant licencing requirements and good business practice. The Board is committed
to ensuring good business practice and drives this both through active risk management, by carrying out
regular functional reviews and by commissioning external experts to review compliance with new rules and
regulations. It also ensures that its processes consider key stakeholders and that there is sufficient time,
information and understanding to properly assess their interests when making decisions and considering
their long-term implications.

The key travel regulators in respect of the travel industry are:

« the Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) which is responsible for the regulation of aviation safety in the
UK, determining policy for the use of airspace, the economic regulation of certain UK airports, the
licensing and financial fitness of airlines and the management of the ATOL financial protection
scheme for holidaymakers.

. ABTA, which represents travel agents and tour operators. ABTA protection is designed to enforce
standards and provide insurance for holidaymakers in the event of financial problems for travel
companies.

e the trish Aviation Authority (IAA) which regulates certain aspects of the aviation and travel trade
sectors in Ireland.

« the Competition and Markets Authority who work to promote competition for the benefit of
consumers, both within and outside the United Kingdom and protect consumers from unfair
trading practices. :

Regular management information is made available to the travel regulators as well as key lenders to the
Group.

The Board is committed to ensuring good business practice throughout the business and drives this both
through the risk management process described above, by carrying out regular functional reviews and by
commissioning external experts to review compliance with new rules and regulations. It also ensures that
its processes consider key stakeholders and that there is sufficient time, information and understanding to
properly assess their interests when making decisions and considering their long-term implications.

Further information on integrity and compliance can be found on pages 145-147 of the TUI AG Annual
Report 2024 which can be found on the TUI AG website www.tuigroup.com/en-en.

13

Docusign Envelope iD: C68EF8BC-B4CA-4C33-84EF-DD81E5560C5C

TUI UK Limited
Strategic Report for the financial year ended 30 September 2024

Section 172(1} statement (continued)

«Shareholders. The Company is a fully owned subsidiary and forms part of TUI Group. Information and details
on transparency can be found within the Corporate Governance Report of TU! Group on pages 129-173 of
the TU! AG Annual Report 2024 which can be found on the TUI AG website www.tuigroup.com/en-en.
Further detail on how the Board engages with shareholders can be found within the Corporate Governance
report in the Company’s Annual Report and Financial Statements.

Statement of corporate governance arrangements
The Companies (Miscellaneous Reporting) Regulations 2018 (SI 2018/860) (the 2018 Regulations) requires the
Company to make a statement of corporate governance arrangements.

The Company, as part of the TUI AG group of companies (the “Group”) operates under the Group Corporate
Governance Code mandated by the Supervisory Board and the Executive Board of the ultimate parent company,
TUI AG. The Group Corporate Governance Code complies with the German Corporate Governance Code, as TUI
AG is a stock corporation under German law. The shares of TUI AG have been listed from 24 June 2024, in the
MDAX on the Frankfurt stock exchange. The listing of TUI AG on the London Stock Exchange was terminated on
21 June 2024. As a result, the obligation of TUI AG to report on compliance with the UK Corporate Governance
Code no longer applied at 30 September 2024. The Group’s Corporate Governance Report can be found in the
TUI AG Annual Report 2024 pages 130-149. Details of where the TUI AG Annual Report can be obtained are in
Note 30 of these financial statements.

The Company has used the Group Corporate Governance Report of TUI AG to prepare its statement of corporate
governance arrangements in alignment with the Wates Corporate Governance Principles for Large Private
Companies.

Purpose and leadership

The Company is a fully owned subsidiary of the TUI AG Group (“TUI Group”). TUI Group is a leisure experiences
group covering the entire holiday journey, serving millions of customers, operating 125 aircraft, 433 hotels and
17 cruise ships, as well as a sizeable experiences, transfers and tours business. The Group is structured into two
divisions — Holiday Experiences and Markets + Airline. The Company is part of the Markets + Airline division.

As part of the Markets + Airline division, the purpose of the Company is to support the distribution and fulfilment
of package holidays, components and ancillaries to a large customer base in the UK&l source market. The
Company differentiates itself from competitors based on its products, services and customer experience. This
enables the Company to follow a customer centric approach, aiming to create long-term relationships. As a
vertically integrated group, itis also important to leverage cross-selling ability and the Company’s upsell potential
across all divisions, and the power of our brand in order to reduce cost of sales. The Central Customer Ecosystem
of the Group creates the basis of this, covering all aspects of marketing, sales and service.

TUl’s strategy focuses on delivering profitable growth, embedded in one central customer ecosystem,
underpinned by our Sustainability Agenda and by our people. The framework for implementation can be
visualized by using our “strategy diamond”, which has five key elements — Holiday Experiences, Markets &
Airlines, Central Customer Ecosystem, Sustainability and People.

14

Docusign Envelope ID: C68EF8BC-B4CA-4C33-84EF-DD81E5560C5C

TUI UK Limited
Strategic Report for the financial year ended 30 September 2024

Statement of corporate governance arrangements (continued)

Purpose and leadership (continued)

| Central Customer
foyaem

Holiday
Experionces

In September 2024, TUI Group announced the acceleration of its Markets + Airline transformation. This consists
of three main focus areas:
(1) A new operating model for the tour operator, creating a fully integrated functional Marketplace for the
core business, enabling global scalability at speed, aiming at more efficiency and profitability;
(2) A separate unit for Expansion Businesses, which will focus on new product categories and markets; and
(3) An enlarged commercial function for TUI Airline, in order to take advantage of commercial opportunities,
whilst aligning operations with the needs of the regions and delivering value for TU! Group.

Board Composition and Director Responsibilities

TUI AG is a “stock corporation” under German law, whose basic principle is two-tiered management by two
boards, the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board. The Executive and Supervisory Boards co-operate closely
in governing and monitoring the Company, guided by the principles of responsibility and good corporate
governance. The TUI AG Executive Board and Supervisory Board are responsible for the long-term strategy,
direction and performance of the TUI Group and its subsidiary companies.

Each company within the TUI AG Group has a Board of Directors, which works very closely with the Executive
Board to determine its long-term plans and strategic objectives. The highest level of governance which exists
locatly for the Company is the UK&l Board. Together with the Executive Board, the UK&! Board is in charge of
managing the Company. The Directors appointed to the UK&I Board have the necessary skills, experience, and
calibre to effectively manage the Company to promote its success and maintain its standard of conduct. When
the UK&l Board takes decisions on major transactions, such as the annual budget, major acquisitions or
divestments, it is required by its terms of reference to seek the approval of the Executive Board and Supervisory
Board, where appropriate. To achieve long-term success, the TUI AG Executive Board works very closely with the
divisional leadership teams, including the UK&I Board, to determine the long-term plans and strategic objectives
of the Group.

Each governance board is committed to promoting diversity and ensuring equality of opportunity for all with the
Board’s composition itself following diversity concepts including age, gender, educational and professional
background. All Directors have access to the advice and services of a Company Secretariat and Legal team to
ensure that Board procedures are followed, and applicable rules and regulations are complied with. The ultimate
parent company, TUI AG has also maintained Directors’ and Officers’ Liability insurance policies on behalf of the
Directors of the Company. These policies meet the Companies Act 2006 definition of a qualifying third-party
indemnity provision.

The Directors are encouraged to use their independent judgement and to constructively challenge matters,
whether they be strategic, operational, or financial.

15

Docusign Envelope ID: C68EF8BC-B4CA-4C33-84EF-DD81E5560C5C.

TUI UK Limited
Strategic Report for the financial year ended 30 September 2024

Statement of corporate governance arrangements (continued)

Opportunity and Risk .

The Executive Board regularly informs the Supervisory Board about existing risks and opportunities and changes
to risks and opportunities. To ensure compliance with laws and regulations and promote effective and efficient
operations by being able to react to the ever-changing risks and opportunities that each company face, the
Executive Board has established an organisational structure with clear operating procedures, lines of
responsibility and delegated authority.

Risk management is an integral component of the Group’s Corporate Governance and every business and
function in the Group is required to adopt the Group Risk Management policy. The principal risks and
uncertainties of the Company are considered collectively on a UK&I basis by the UK&! Risk Committee and the
UK&I Risk Champion, who promotes the implementation of the risk management policy and ensures its effective
application. The Risk Champions are in close contact with the Group Risk team and are critical both in ensuring
that the risk management system functions effectively, and in implementing a culture of continuous awareness
and improvement in risk management and reporting.

Detailed information on the principal risks faced by the Company can be found in the “Principal risks and
uncertainties” section of the Strategic Report.

Remuneration

As a fully owned subsidiary of the TUI Group, the Company’s Directors’ remuneration is determined based on
both relative external pay and the wider workforce remuneration and conditions. The structures used to
determine Company’s Directors’ remuneration are aligned to the long-term sustainable success of the Company.

Stakeholder Relationships and Engagement

Asa fully owned subsidiary of the TU! Group, the success of the Company intrinsically relies on open, continuous
and transparent dialogue between TUI AG and its shareholders, institutional investors, equity and credit analysts
and lenders. This communication can take a variety of forms (both face to face and virtual), including roadshows;
conferences; direct contact with private investors, and the provision of a wide range of information on the TUI
AG website.

In terms of our people, the Company places considerable value on the engagement of its employees and has
continued to keep them informed on matters affecting them as employees and on the various factors affecting
the performance of the Company. This is achieved through formal and informal communication channels which
includes regular meetings, led by the Company’s Directors and members of the UK&I Board.

More detailed information on engagement with Employees, Customers, Suppliers, Community and environment
and Business conduct can be found in the Section 172(1) statement within the Strategic Report.

Non-Financial and Sustainability Information Statement

The Companies (Strategic Report) (Climate-related Financial Disclosure) Regulations 2022 (SI 2022/31) requires
the Company to include a non-financial and sustainability information statement which includes climate-related
financial disclosures (a)-(h) as required by the regulations.

The operating activities of the Company are intrinsically linked to that of other trading companies within the TUI
Group. For example, aircraft seats are purchased by the Company from TU! Airways Limited, hotel
accommodation is sourced from the Hotels & Resorts segment of the Group and touristic services of the
Company are sold through the retail store network operated by TUI UK Retail Limited. This means that climate
related matters facing the TU! Group as a whole impact the Company, either directly or indirectly through the
arrangements the Company has with its fellow group undertakings. Furthermore, a significant portion of the
climate-related governance and management is undertaken at the group level by TUI AG on behalf of all group
undertakings, including the Company.

16

Docusign Envelope ID: C68EF8BC-B4CA-4C33-84EF-DD81E5560C5C

TUI UK Limited
Strategic Report for the financial year ended 30 September 2024

Non-Financial and Sustainability Information Statement (continued)

(a) a description of the company’s governance arrangements in relation to assessing and managing climate-
related risks and opportunities :

Group governance arrangements relating to climate-related matters have been established by TU] AG which
operate on behalf of the wider TUI Group, including the Company. The Group Executive Committee (“GEC”) of
TUI AG has ultimate oversight of climate-related issues and is responsible for reviewing climate-related risks and
opportunities, strategy, measures and target-setting. At the GEC level, the Group Chief Sustainability Officer
(“CSO”) is responsible for reporting on sustainability and climate-related issues for the Group. The CSO, a
member of the GEC, reports on sustainability matters (including risks and opportunities) on a monthly basis. The
Company is required to adopt climate related approach set out by the GEC.

The Group Sustainability Director & ESG regularly reports into the CSO, which is the most appropriate and direct
line of reporting to raise climate-related issues to the highest level within the business. The Executive Board of
TUI AG (all being members of the GEC) have executive oversight of climate/environmental related strategy,
organisation, management, measures, and targets. The Executive Board considers climate-related matters when
reviewing and guiding strategy, major plans of action, risk management policies, annual budgets, and business
plans as well as setting the Group’s performance objectives, monitoring implementation and performance, and
overseeing climate-related matters associated with major capital expenditures, acquisitions, and divestitures.
The highest level of governance is the Supervisory Board which oversees the Executive Board.

(b) a description of how the company identifies, assesses, and manages climate-related risks and
opportunities

Given the shared-governance arrangements outlined above, the Company and the Group are both responsible
for the identification of the climate-retated risks and opportunities. The GEC manages the Group’s strategic
direction and long-term objectives for sustainable development and approves the Group’s Sustainability Agenda.
A team of experienced sustainability professionals work in close collaboration with the Company’s senior
management to ensure that TUI’s business and sustainability focus areas are aligned across the Group.

Sustainability Governance

SUPERVISORY BOARD
Twice yearly updates by the CSO

EXECUTIVE BOARD AND GROUP EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
Monthly updates by the CSO

GROUP SUSTAINABILITY TEAM RISK OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE (ROC)
Develops, implements, and embeds the Reviews risks and ensures any changes in
TU! Sustainability Agenda, with afocus regulation and legislation are taken into

on the environmental, economic and socal \oxd / consideration. Regular meetings with the
aspects Set out in the UN Sustainable Group Risk Department. Annual update
Development Goals. to the ROC.

17

Docusign Envelope ID: C68EF8BC-B4CA-4C33-84EF-DD81E5560C5C

TUI UK Limited
Strategic Report for the financial year ended 30 September 2024

Non-Financial and Sustainability Information Statement (continued)

{b) a description of how the company identifies, assesses, and manages climate-related risks and
opportunities (continued)

The group sustainability team of TUI Group, led by the Group Sustainability Director & ESG, is responsible for the
implementation of the Sustainability Agenda across TUI (including the Company) and its supply chain. The GEC is
regularly updated on the Group’s performance in delivering the Sustainability Agenda and tackling other key
sustainability issues. Regular meetings are also held with the Group Risk Oversight Committee (“ROC”) to review
climate-related and sustainability risks and discuss any changes, either internal or to the external environment,
which affect the business exposure.

(c) a description of how processes for identifying, assessing, and managing climate-related risks are
integrated into the company’s overall risk management process

The Group’s systematic risk management process has identified sustainability risks including climate-related risks
for the Group as a whole which includes the Company. The existing risk categories and definitions of our risk
management framework have been used to assess and integrate the climate risks into our Enterprise Risk
Management (“ERM”) system.

The climate change risk assessment highlighted risks and opportunities where the impact falls beyond the current
risk management time horizon. Nevertheless, all major climate-related risks and opportunities from this
assessment are covered by the Group’s Risk Management process and will be managed accordingly. Where the
impact of the risks and opportunities detected in the assessment are far into the future, they will be continuously
monitored to ensure risks are managed effectively and opportunities are capitalised on.

Whilst the information provided above meets the Company’s requirements in respect of the Climate-related
Financial Disclosure Regulations 2022, if further information is needed on the Group risk management process,
please refer to page 5 of the Strategic Report and page 34 in the Risk Report within the FY24 TUI AG Annual
Report which can be found on the TUI AG website www.tuigroup.com/en-en.

(d) a description of the principal climate-related risks and opportunities arising in connection with the
company’s operations, the time periods by reference to which those risks and opportunities are assessed
and a description of the actual and potential impacts of the principal climate-related risks and
opportunities on the company’s business model and strategy

Climate-related risks and opportunities have been assessed on a qualitative basis by TUI AG (in 2023) on behalf

of the whole Group, including the Company. The assessment considers the short, medium and long-term. Short-

term is defined as the period up to 2030 (aligned with TUI’s verified Science-based Targets “SBTi”), medium-term

as the period up to 2040, and long-term as the period up to 2050 (when TUI aims to achieve net-zero emissions

across our operations and supply chain). A description of the principal climate-related risks has been outlined

below. Climate-related risks are divided into two categories:

Transition: Socioeconomic changes related to the transition to a low-carbon economy including policy, legal,
technology and market changes.

@ Physical: Physical changes in the climate including event-driven (acute) changes such as storms, fires and
floods, and long-term (chronic) changes such as increased temperature.

18

TUI UK Limited

Strategic Report for the financial year ended 30 September 2024

Docusign Envelope ID: C68EF8BC-B4CA-4C33-84EF-DD81E5560C5C

Non-Financial and Sustainability Information Statement (continued)

(d) a description of the principal climate-related risks and opportunities arising in connection with the
company’s operations, the time periods by reference to which those risks and opportunities are assessed
and a description of the actual and potential impacts of the principal climate-related risks and
opportunities on the company’s business model and strategy (continued) .

Transition risks:
Description

Impact

Policy & Legal

There is a risk of the
introduction of new, or
extension of existing,
carbon pricing
mechanisms (including
cost pass-through by
suppliers) and increasing
regulations and
restrictions targeting the

airline and cruise industry.

There are already operating restrictions at
certain airports and the ban of non-
sustainable fuel types in certain maritime
areas. Increasing regulations and
restrictions targeting the airline and cruise
industry, present a risk of reduced
revenue and/or stranded assets.

This risk of new or extended restrictions is
mostly likely to be realised in the short-
term to medium term.

Technology

There is a risk of costly or
unavailable future fuels
and technologies which
could prevent further
decarbonisation and
potential non-compliance
with laws/regulations.

Although it is expected that future fuels
will continue to gain momentum and that
production capacity will dramatically
increase in the short-term to medium-
term, there is a risk that demand will
outpace supply resulting in low availability
and inflated prices.

In the medium-term, there is a risk that
low carbon technologies are not available
to support the TUI Group’s path to net
zero. Whilst there are trials e.g., in battery
or fuel cell aircraft and ships, such
technology might not be developed to a
market stage.

Advancements in green technologies may
lead to the depreciation of existing river
boats and necessitate upgrades. This risk
is mostly likely to be realised in the short-
term to medium term.

Management

The TUI Group is committed to decarbonising its
business and has set ambitious near-term science-
based emissions reduction targets validated by the
SBTi.

To achieve these:

« The Company uses flights provided by Group
airlines who procure state-of-the art aircraft,
implement operational efficiencies (including
route optimisation), and will increase the use of
SAF (Sustainable Aviation Fuel). The Group
already has cooperation agreements in place to
promote the production and supply of SAF.

« The Company uses hotels and resorts (operated
by the Group), which are focused on renewable
energy and resource-saving operational
practices to reduce hotel emissions as far as
possible.

@ The Company has included Green & Fair hotels
in its holiday programme. This means the
hotels have passed an audit by a third-party
sustainability certification body for meeting the
Criteria of the Global Sustainable Tourism
Council (GSTC).

«@ The Company uses cruise ships operated by the
Group, which is focused on reducing its fuel
and power consumption.

e The Company uses retail outlets, which are run
on 100% green energy (confirmed by REGO
certificates). Fluorescent lighting currently
being replaced with LED lighting panels across
the network of stores.

@ The Company leases river boats to provide river
cruises to its customers. As these boats are
leased this gives the Company the flexibility to
lease vessels which meet our green criteria.
New boats are being designed with
sustainability in mind and will again be looking
at local communities to procure and source,
recycled materials in the refits and various
other energy efficient measures.

19

TUI UK Limited

Strategic Report for the financial year ended 30 September 2024

Docusign Envelope ID: C68EF8BC-B4CA-4C33-84EF-DD81E5560C5C

Non-Financial and Sustainability Information Statement (continued)

(d) a description of the principal climate-related risks and opportunities arising in connection with the
company’s operations, the time periods by reference to which those risks and opportunities are assessed
and a description of the actual and potential impacts of the principal climate-related risks and
opportunities on the company’s business model and strategy (continued)

Transition risks (continued)

Market

There is a risk of a decline
in demand due to shifts in
consumer behaviour and
increasing negative
sentiment towards
holidays that include air
travel/cruise ships.

Impact

Management

There is a risk in the medium-term to
long-term that customers decide to travel
less (or differently, for example moving
away from air travel) for environmental
reasons, thereby reducing revenue.

There is a risk of
requirements for higher
capital expenditures and
operational expenses to
offer low-carbon
products.

There is a risk the Group
faces difficulties in
obtaining access to
financing due to the
inability to reduce
emissions in line with
market expectations.

Significant price increases for leisure
product poses the risk that in the
medium-term to long-term certain
consumer groups will no longer be able to
afford our products , causing a loss of
revenue.

Increasingly policies and laws are being
introduced that combat climate change,
and institutional investors increasingly
consider environmental, social and
governance (“ESG”) to be part of their
fiduciary duties. These investors might be
more inclined to divest if the Group does
not take sufficient action on ESG issues in
the medium-term and long-term.

Reputation

There is a risk that failure
to meet decarbonisation
targets will negatively
affect TUI’s reputation
with stakeholders.

There may be a reputational risk due to
increased negative public sentiment on
climate change if the TUI Group is unable
to meet its decarbonisation targets. This
impact applies across all time horizons
and could potentially lead to revenue loss
and an inability to attract and retain
talent.

TUI’s businesses causing
additional damage to
climate impacted
ecosystems affecting
customers’ perception of
the Group. £.g. TUI’s River
Cruise business could
disrupt marine/river
ecosystems or TUI’s Ski
business disrupt alpine
ecosystems, both already
stressed by climate
change. This could
potentially lead to
cascading effects on the

overall ecosystem health.

Reputational damage and reduction in
demand for products deemed to
negatively impact fragile ecosystems. This
impact applies across all time horizons

and could potentially lead to revenue loss.

Managing both market and reputational risks
depends on the successful implementation of our
emissions reduction initiatives. Accordingly, the TUI
Group has roadmaps in place to deliver on our
science-based targets.

With the Group’s efficient fleet of aircraft, it is
likely that our cost increase is competitive.
Furthermore, the share of extra cost from low-
carbon flying is lower in a package and hence we
believe that we can effectively transfer cost
additions.

TUI has set science-based emissions reduction
targets for 2030 and a net zero target for 2050. The
TUI Group has a wide range of financiers due to TUI
Group’s financial performance and is continuing to
develop relationships with new sources of finance
and monitor the development of the market.

TUL is in a continuing education process with lessors
and the financial community to maintain confidence
in the strategy.

Provision of adequate resources to set clear goals,
priorities and the framework to deliver the
Sustainability Agenda and therefore minimise the
risk of not meeting targets.

By prioritising and adopting sustainable and
responsible tourism practices the Company can
work towards reducing its environmental! impact
and contributing to the preservation of the
destinations it operates in.

Education of customers about responsible tourism
to minimize the environmental impact of their
holiday e.g. The UK’s Ski business has partnered
with climate action charity Protect Our Winters UK
(POW) to support their education programme. The
aim is to help people better understand the
environmental and sustainability issues facing the
ski industry, and how to advocate for climate
action.

20

Docusign Envelope ID: C68EF8BC-B4CA-4C33-84EF-DD81E5560C5C

TUI UK Limited

Strategic Report for the financial year ended 30 September 2024

Non-Financial and Sustainability Information Statement (continued)

(d) a description of the principal ‘climate-related risks and opportunities arising in connection with the
company’s operations, the time periods by reference to which those risks and opportunities are assessed
and a description of the actual and potential impacts of the principal climate-related risks and
opportunities on the company’s business model and strategy (continued)

Physical risks (chronic):
Description

Extreme weather-related
damage

There is a risk of physical
damage to assets and
business disruption due to
longer-term shifts in
climate patterns.

Extreme weather-related
disruption

There is a risk that
changing weather
patterns decreases
suitability for tourism.

Impact

This could potentially result in higher
operating costs; for example from
increased air conditioning requirements to
offset higher sustained temperatures.

Increased frequency and intensity of
storms, floods, drought, and other
extreme weather events can affect
passenger safety and overall experience.
e.g. in the River boat business, low water
levels in drought conditions can impact
river navigation, leading to cancellation
and itinerary adjustments, thereby
causing potential revenue loss and/or
higher operating costs associated with
itinerary changes.

The ski industry could be impacted by
insufficient snowfall, increased risk of
avalanches and other slope-related
hazards leading to potential revenue loss
and/or higher operating costs associated
with disruption.

The risk is most likely to be realised in the
long-term as the effects of physical
climate change become more profound,
however examples of acute disruption are
already being observed today.

Tourism demand in the medium-term and
long-term is expected to be affected by
climate change as weather is a key
determinant in destination choice. In
Europe it is expected that southern
regions will face reductions in demand as
weather becomes less suitable for
tourism, particularly in higher warming
scenarios which presents a risk of revenue
reduction. Conversely, northern European
regions are expected to benefit from
changing weather patterns which could
present an opportunity of additional
revenue that could mitigate the lost
revenue from southern Europe.

21

Management

Whilst the scenario analysis indicates higher
probability of extreme weather events, few of the
Company’s holiday destination locations are
vulnerable to a rising sea level during the time
frame of our climate scenario analysis.

For the River cruise business, collaboration with
local authorities to plan for potential disruptions
e.g. rivers impacted by variable water conditions.
The implementation of advanced monitoring
systems to track river levels, the investment in
adaptable vessels that can navigate varying water
levels, and the establishment of robust
communication channels for timely passenger
notifications and itinerary adjustments. All the
riverboats operating in European waters have a
Green Award for sustainability.

For the Ski business, diverse offerings include:
activities beyond skiing; investment in snowmaking
technologies; and partnerships with resorts in more
climate-resilient locations (e.g. at a high altitude).
To enhance avalanche and slope safety, the
implementation of advanced slope monitoring
systems, enhanced staff training on safety
protocols, and collaboration with local authorities
to ensure timely and accurate information on slope
conditions.

Climate-related factors are considered in when
contracting third-party accommodation and in the
expansion of the TUI’s Hotels & Resorts business
segment.


Docusign Envelope ID: C68EF8BC-B4CA-4C33-84EF-DD81E5560C5C

TUI UK Limited
Strategic Report for the financial year ended 30 September 2024

Non-Financial and Sustainability Information Statement (continued)

(d) a description of the principal climate-related risks and opportunities arising in connection with the
company’s operations, the time periods by reference to which those risks and opportunities are assessed
and a description of the actual and potential impacts of the principal climate-related risks and
Opportunities on the company’s business model and strategy (continued)

Physical risks (acute):
Description Management
Extreme weather-related | This could result in higher costs from This risk is managed at the asset-level. The
damage property damage and business Company manages the overarching risk through
interruption and also result in potentially insurance and use a large portfolio of hotels and
There is a risk of physical | higher insurance premiums. This risk is resorts which are located worldwide, thereby
damage to assets and mostly likely to be realised in the long- diversifying the risk.

business disruption due to | term as the effects of physical climate
extreme weather-related | change become more profound.
events.

Extreme weather-related | Extreme weather events may disrupt the The risk of airport disruption was found to be low

disruption airport and port operations which the in the physical risk analysis. Nonetheless, the TUI
Company relies on, resulting in delays or Group works closely with airports in case of
There is a risk that cancellations and associated additional disruption and will continue to evaluate the risk
| extreme weather events costs including refunds, repatriation profile of its material airports.
disrupting transport hubs, | flights, and hotel accommodation costs.
resulting in delays and This risk is most likely to be realised inthe | Whilst docking is already considered a resilient
cancellations, and medium-term and long-term as the effects | activity, the risk is further mitigated by the
increased costs. of physical climate change become more flexibility to adjust cruise itineraries.
profound.

Climate-related Opportunities
A description of the principal climate-related opportunities are as follows:

Introduction of more efficient operational assets: As short-term to medium-term opportunities, we
identified the introduction of more efficient operational assets such as aircraft, cruise ships and river boats,
as well as a shift to renewable energy sources at hotels and resorts.

e Offer lower-emission travel options: An additional opportunity is to offer lower-emission air travel, cruise
travel and hotel stays as a way to improve our competitive position. Providing alternative modes of
transport, including a move to high-speed rail, is also seen as an opportunity for our business.

e Investment in new technologies: The TUI Group’s investment in, and adoption of, emerging sustainable
technologies, such as hybrid or electric propulsion systems, could align with future regulatory requirements
and consumer preferences resulting in potential increased market share.

e Flexible destination planning: Our business model is flexible to offer new destinations based on changing
weather conditions, e.g. more travel to destinations around the Baltic Sea. In the long-term in some
destinations, we expect to see a shift in consumer preferences from peak seasons, where heat waves may
occur, to shoulder seasons where the weather is still very favourable for travel.

(e) analysis of the resilience of the company’s business model and strategy, taking into consideration
different climate-related scenarios

The resilience of this Company to different climate—related scenarios, is directly correlated to the resilience of
the TUI AG Group. In financial year ended 30 September 2023, TU! AG on behalf of the Group, conducted
qualitative and quantitative scenario analysis in order to understand the potential effects of climate change on
its business and to test its strategy and financial planning to increase resilience. A number of assumptions
underpin this assessment regarding changes to the intensity and frequency of weather-related events,
technology development, development of energy and carbon prices, and the development of knowledge on
global warming. Management considers the results of this analysis to remain valid to the Company at 30
September 2024, as there have been no significant changes to the underlying risks and opportunities identified
nor the nature of the business, since the analysis was undertaken.

22

Docusign Envelope !D: C68EF8BC-B4CA-4C33-84EF-DD81E5560C5C

TUI UK Limited
Strategic Report for the financial year ended 30 September 2024

Non-Financial and Sustainability Information Statement (continued)

{e) analysis of the resilience of the company’s business model and strategy, taking into consideration
different climate-related scenarios (continued)

Two scenarios were considered in the 2023 climate risk assessment. Both scenarios could have different

consequences for the Group:

«  Ahigh emissions scenario to assess the impact of significant changes in the physical climate, which is based
on the IPCC RCP8.5 and the IEA Stated Policies Scenario. This is aligned with global warming of approximately
4.3°C by the year 2100; and

« Atow emissions scenario to assess the impact of significant socioeconomic changes to achieve a low-carbon
economy, which is based on IPCC RCP2.6 and the IEA Net Zero Scenario. This is aligned with global warming
of approximately 1.5°C by the year 2100.

In a low emissions scenario, stricter emissions and fuel efficiency targets could increase operating costs, while
assets based on unsustainable practices could lose value. However, the Group could benefit from a positive
image, as environmentally conscious travellers prefer companies that are committed to sustainability. In a high
emissions scenario, physical risks from extreme weather events and natural disasters could impact the Group’s
tourism destinations. Rising operating costs due to stricter environmental regulations could impact profitability.

The results of the scenario analyses confirmed that the Group’s strategic initiatives and reduction pathway as
described above, are suitable for minimising the risks outlined in the sections (d) and (e) above. We acknowledge
that a number of assumptions such as changes to the intensity and frequency of weather-related events,
technology development, development of energy and carbon prices, and the development of knowledge on
global warming had to be taken into account to derive the scenario analysis and the uncertainty of the impact
and likelihood of certain effects increases mid- to long-term.

In 2023, TU! AG, on behalf of the group, completed a qualitative assessment of ail climate related risks and
opportunities outlined in sections (d) and (e). This assessment showed the risks to be immaterial for financial
planning, which was confirmed by a sensitivity analysis. As there has been no change to the underlying risks and
Opportunities, and no change in the nature of the business since the qualitative analysis was undertaken, the
2023 analysis is still deemed valid.

(f) a description of the targets used by the company to manage climate-related risks and realise climate-
related opportunities and of performance against those targets

The targets of the Company to manage climate—related risks are wholly and intrinsically linked with those of TUI
AG. The TU! Group is committed to achieving net-zero emissions and aims to achieve this target across our
operations and supply chain by 2050 at the latest. The TUI Group has committed to the Science Based Targets
initiative (“SBTi”) to reduce emissions by 2030. These targets are:

© Reduction of airline CO2 equivalent (“CO2e”) per revenue passenger kilometre by 24% by 2030.13

e Reduction of absolute COze from our cruise operations by 27.5% by 2030.**

* Reduction of absolute CO2e from TUI Hotels & Resorts by 46.2% by 2030.23

1Baseline 2019. Level of ambition well below 2°C. Apart from carbon dioxide (CO2), emissions include the other five greenhouse
gases impacting the climate as listed in the Kyoto Protocol: methane (CH4), nitrous oxide (N2O}, hydro-fluorocarbons (HFCs),
perfluorocarbons (PFCs) and Sulphur hexafluoride (SF¢). TUI Group’s science-based targets commitments include well-to-wake
emissions for our airline and cruise operations (emissions from aviation and marine fuel, scope 1 and scope 3, category 3).

2In the financial year under review, progress was achieved in all areas of TUI’s science-based targets (SBTs) compared with
baseline year 2019. The figures published in the following sections of the Non-Financial Group Declaration for financial year
2024 on greenhouse gas emissions from airlines, cruise ships and hotels do not correspond to the scope, limits or reporting
methodology of our science-based targets. To understand our progress towards achieving our SBTs, it is important to draw
exclusively on information specifically related to SBT targets.

Baseline 2019. Level of ambition 1.5°C. For hotels, the commitment includes emissions from all energy sources plus refrigerant
gases (scope 1 and 2).

23

Docusign Envelope ID: C68EF8BC-B4CA-4C33-84EF-DD81E5560C5C

TUI UK Limited
Strategic Report for the financial year ended 30 September 2024

Non-Financial and Sustainability information Statement (continued)

(f) a description of the targets used by the company to manage climate-related risks and realise climate-
related opportunities and of performance against those targets (continued)

In the financial year ending 30 September 2024, progress was achieved in ail areas of TUI’s science-based climate
targets compared with baseline year 2019:

Science-based targets performance . Target (2030)
(TUI Group) 2024 2019 Var % in %
Airline gCOze rpk 75.5 80.9 -6.7 - 24
Cruises tCO2e 1,118,303 1,249,224 - 10.5 -27.5
Hotels tCO2e 659,236 794,354 -17.0 - 46.2

The key figure for the airline ond cruise reduction target includes Scope 1 and Scope 3.3 emissions
rpk = revenue passenger kilometre

The progress to date achieved against TUI’s science-based climate targets is in line with TUI’s non-linear
progression expectations.

More efficient flying

TUI already operates one of Europe’s most carbon-efficient airlines and aims to continually enhance its
environmental performance. The Group’s airline emissions reduction targets have been validated by the SBTi.
The emission reduction roadmap for our aircraft fleet comprises the following measures: additional capex on
modern carbon-efficient aircraft, efficiency enhancement through operational measures and investments in
sustainable aircraft fuels (SAF). In order to reduce emissions, the TU] Group has invested in state-of-the-art
aircraft such as Boeing 787-and Boeing 737 Max aircraft. On average, these planes are 20% (787) and 16% (737
Max) more fuel-efficient than the aircraft they replace in TUI’s fleet.

Environmental management systems and operational measures play a key role in implementing sustainability
and further enhancing TUI’s Climate efficiency. In financial year ended 30 September 2024, all TUI airlines were
certified under the internationally recognised ISO 14001:2015 standard.

In 2024, relative carbon emissions of TUI Airways Limited, (which provides the majority of the Company’s flying
requirements) decreased by 0.2%. This improvement was largely due to higher load factors versus 2023 and the
ongoing re-fleeting programme which replaces older aircraft with new, more carbon-efficient aircraft.

More sustainable cruising

We continue to focus on reducing the emissions of our river cruises. This business stream is not part of the TUI
Group SBT targets, as it was not operational in base line year 2019. The increase in emissions shown below is due
to changes in itineraries.

FY24 FY23 Var%
TUI River Cruises kgCO2e/pcd 87 85 42.3
pcd = passenger cruise day

All the riverboats operating in European waters, have a Green Award for sustainability and there is a no single-
use plastic policy in place.

24

Docusign Envelope ID: C68EF8BC-B4CA-4C33-84EF-DD81E5560C5C

TUI UK Limited
Strategic Report for the financial year ended 30 September 2024

Non-Financial and Sustainability Information Statement (continued)

(f} a description of the targets used by the company to manage climate-related risks and realise climate-
related opportunities and of performance against those targets (continued)

Environmental protection in our hotels

The Company’s hotel partners continue to focus on promoting the sustainability transformation across their
operations. Each hotel plays an important role in managing the impacts on the local community, the economy
and the environment. Emission reductions remain our key priority, and the Group has prepared comprehensive
roadmaps and defined targets for 2030 for its Hotels & Resorts segment. These targets have been acknowledged
by the SBTi. .

The hotel portfolio used by the Company, is still growing and many of the hotels utilise the latest technology, in
order to improve their sustainability performance. The generation of renewable energies from solar and wind
power is a key element of the emission reduction roadmaps, alongside efficiency measures delivered through
hotel refurbishment and new buildings.

Sustainable construction is an important tool for saving energy and cutting carbon emissions from hotels. The
Green Building Guidelines provide specific recommendations to our group hotels and to our hotel partners for
their construction and refurbishment projects in order to reduce the environmental impacts and achieve savings
in water and energy consumption. They also cover aspects such as monitoring systems, sustainability
certifications and stakeholder communication.

The hotels used by the Company which are within TUI’s Hotels & Resorts portfolio continued to improve their
ecological! footprint in terms of specific emissions and waste. Fresh water consumption rose by around 5% per
bednight.

(g) a description of the key performance indicators used to assess progress against targets used to manage
climate-related risks and realise climate-related opportunities and of the calculations on which those key
performance indicators are based

KPls and metrics used to evaluate climate-related matters are set only at the TUI Group level. The Group uses a
variety of KPIs and metrics to identify, monitor and manage performance against the targets outlined above and
other risks that may impact the business. The TUI Group is continuously working on improving its KPIs and metrics
to ensure the effective identification of the most material climate related risks and opportunities. In order to
measure and manage climate-related risks and in line with our strategic target to achieve net-zero emissions
across our operations and supply chain by 2050 at the latest, we monitor our absolute CO2 emissions, (specific)
fuel consumption and specific carbon emissions. Emissions from TUI’s airline, cruises and hotel segments
represent 99% of the Group’s emissions. Within our asset portfolio our airline emissions represent roughly 75%
of the Group’s total carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions. Following the larger scale use of SAF, we will further develop
our metrics to reflect the impact on CO2 emissions.

25

Docusign Envelope ID: C68EF8BC-B4CA-4C33-84EF-DD81E5560C5C

TUI UK Limited
Strategic Report for the financial year ended 30 September 2024

Streamlined Energy and Carbon Reporting

Across the TUI Group, dedicated and experienced sustainability professionals work in close collaboration with
senior management at Group and at divisional level to help ensure that TUI’s business and sustainability
strategies are aligned. As part of TUI’s sustainability management approach, the corporate headquarters have
been successfully audited against the ISO 14001:2015 environmental standard. In 2024, the Group participated
in the CDP Climate Change programme and in the S&P Dow Jones Sustainability Index Assessment and engaged
in dialogue with other researchers and investors on climate change, GHG emissions and other sustainability
issues. TUI Group was awarded a place on the A-List for CDP Climate Change.

Respecting the environment in our products, services and processes is an essential feature of our quality
standards. We place priority on improving carbon and resource efficiency, with additional focus on waste and
water consumption. Conserving natural resources and mitigating negative environmental impacts are both in the
interests of our business as well as the future success of travel and tourism.

Actions in our sustainability strategy aim to reduce the environmental intensity of our operations and set clear
stretch targets for improvement across aviation, cruise and hotels. The Group has implemented specific carbon
reduction initiatives across the business — from airline and cruise efficiency programmes, hotel certifications, to
retail energy savings and the reduction of printed brochures.

TUI Group launched its new Sustainability Agenda in February 2023. This includes validated 2030 science-based
GHG emissions reductions targets for airlines, cruise, and hotels, covering over 99% of the Group’s Scope 1 &
Scope 2 CO2e emissions. Further information can be found on pages 76-104 of the TUI AG Annual Report 2024 in
the ‘Non-financial Group Declaration of TUI Group’ section and also on the Sustainability section of the Group’s
website.

Forming part of TUI’s energy procurement strategy, all sites in the UK (including retail shops, offices and other
locations) are supplied with certified 100% renewable electricity. Every megawatt hour of electricity used is
matched with a UK-recognised origin certificate. The electricity tariffs are compliant with the Greenhouse Gas
Protocol so that zero carbon emissions for purchased electricity may be reported when using the market-based
method. :

Greenhouse gas emissions:

Financial year Financial year

ended ended

30 September 30 September

2024 2023

Energy consumption used to calculate emissions [kWh] 38,369,510 30,879,399
Scope 1: Emissions from combustion of gas COze [t] 0 0
Scope 1: Emissions from combustion of fuel for transport purposes CO2e [t] 9,317 7,489
Scope 3: Emissions from business travel COze [t] 35 25
Scope 2: Emissions from purchased electricity CO2e [t]} 434 324
Total COze [t] 9,786 7,837
Emissions per square foot of office space COze kg per Sq Ft (TUI UK only) 2.3 2.0
Emissions per passenger cruise day — TUI River Cruises (kgCO2e/pcd) 87 85

26

Doacusign Envelope ID: C68EF8BC-B4CA-4C33-84EF-DD81E5560C5C

TUI UK Limited
Strategic Report for the financial year ended 30 September 2024

Streamlined Energy and Carbon Reporting (continued)

Methodology

Energy and emissions data collection and reporting is in line with that of TUI Group, which follows the
Greenhouse Gas Protocol.

Electricity and gas consumption data from the UK property estate is collected and reported centrally by an energy
management system on a regular basis and aggregated monthly and annually.

The latest published conversion factors provided by the UK Government (DEFRA) and the International Energy
Agency (IEA) are used to calculate COze emissions. Emissions from electricity consumption have been reported
using the location-based method.

Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by

‘Signed by:
[ say Rolfe
B4BAEDF4DD7D4B6...
JL Rolfe
Director

Company Number 2830117 ; Date: 24 March 2025


Docusign Envelope ID: C68EF8BC-B4CA-4C33-84EF-DD81E5560C5C

TUI UK Limited
Directors’ Report for the financial year ended 30 September 2024

The Directors present their Annual Report on the affairs of TU! UK Limited (‘the Company’), together with the
financial statements, for the year ended 30 September 2024.

In accordance with $414C(11), the Directors have included in the Strategic Report items which were otherwise
required under s416(4) to be disclosed in the Directors’ Report as the Directors consider them to be of strategic
importance to the Company. These items include disclosures pertaining to: financial risk management objectives
and policies; going concern; dividends; future developments; engagement with suppliers, customers and others;
statement of corporate governance arrangements; and energy and carbon reporting.

Directors
The Directors, who served throughout the year and to the date of this report, except as noted, were as follows:

ND Swanson

P lveson (appointed on 20 December 2023, resigned on 11 February 2025)
B Quinton Smith (appointed on 20 December 2023)

JL Rolfe (appointed on 12 August 2024)

CRG Logan (appointed on 11 February 2025)

R Sofer (resigned on 1 October 2023)

TUI Travel Limited (Corporate director, resigned on 27 November 2023)

A Flintham (resigned on 30 September 2024)

HLP Andersson _ (resigned on 18 October 2024)

Director's indemnities
The Company has made qualifying third-party indemnity provisions for the benefit of its directors which were in
place throughout the financial year and remain in force at the date of this report.

Auditors
Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of this report confirms that:
¢ — so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Company's auditors
are unaware; and
e the Director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a director in order to make themself
aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Company's auditors are aware of that
information.

This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of 5418 of the Companies
Act 2006.

Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditors and appropriate arrangements
have been put in place for them to be deemed reappointed as auditors in the absence of an Annual General
Meeting.

Existence of branches outside the UK
The Company has a branch, as defined in section 1046(3) of the Companies Act 2006, outside the UK. The branch
operates in France and is a small part of the Ski division.

Events after the balance sheet date
Details of significant events since the balance sheet date are contained in Note 29 to the financial statements.

Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by

‘Signed by:
[ sale Rolfe.
B4gAEDF4D070486...
JL Rolfe

Director .
Company Number 2830117 Date: 24 March 2025

28

Docusign Envelope ID: C68EF8BC-B4CA-4C33-84EF-DD81E5560C5C

TUE UK Limited
Directors’ responsibilities statement

The Directors are responsible for preparing the Directors’ report and the financial statements in accordance with
applicable law and regulations.

Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under that law the
Directors have elected to prepare the financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally
Accepted Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law), including FRS 101 The
Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland.

Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they
give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that
period.

In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to:

e — select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;

e make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent;

© state whether applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards have been followed; and

© prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the
Company will continue in business.

The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain
the Company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the
Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.

They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for
the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.

The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information
included on the Company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and
dissemination of financial statements may differ from legistation in other jurisdictions.

29

Docusign Envelope ID: C68EF8BC-B4CA-4C33-84EF-DD81E5560C5C

TUI UK Limited
independent auditor’s report to the members of TUI UK Limited

Independent auditor’s report to the members of TUI UK Limited
Report on the audit of the financial statements

Opinion

In our opinion the financial statements of TUI UK Limited (the ‘Company’):

give a true and fair view of the state of the Company’s affairs as at 30 September 2024 and of its loss for the
year then ended;

« have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice,
including Financial Reporting Standard 101 “Reduced Disclosure Framework”; and

« have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.

We have audited the financial statements which comprise:
*« the Statement of Comprehensive Income;
« the Statement of Financial Position;
e the Statement of Changes in Equity; and
« the related Notes 1 to 30.

The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United
Kingdom Accounting Standards, including Financial Reporting Standard 101 “Reduced Disclosure Framework”
(United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).

Basis for opinion

We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) (ISAs (UK)) and applicable
law. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditor's responsibilities for the audit
of the financial statements section of our report.

We are independent of the Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit
of the financial statements in the UK, including the Financial Reporting Council’s (the ‘FRC’s’) Ethical Standard,
and we have fuifilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. We believe that
the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.

Conclusions relating to going concern
In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the directors’ use of the going concern basis of
accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate.

Our evaluation of the directors’ assessment of the Company’s ability to continue to adopt the going concern
basis of accounting included:

« Reviewing the three-year plan for the UK&I Group, and the extent at which the Company would need
support from TUI AG based on the net liability position of the Company.

e Reviewing the letter of support provided by the Group to confirm the covered period is at least 12
months from the approval date of the financial statements.

e Reviewing the directors’ assessment of TUI AG’s ability to provide support to the Company if called
upon, including reviewing the TUI AG’s liquidity forecasts and covenant forecasts over the going concern
period.

« Obtained evidence over the refinancing at TUI AG level, signed on 21/03/2025, which agreed a
sustainability-linked RCF providing €1.89 billion of flexible liquidity to the Group over a 5-year tenor.

Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified any material uncertainties relating to events or
conditions that, individually or collectively, may cast significant doubt on the Company’s ability to continue as a

going concern for a period of at least twelve months from when the financial statements are authorised for issue.

Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the directors with respect to going concern are described in the
relevant sections of this report.

30

Docusign Envelope ID: C68EF8BC-B4CA-4C33-84EF-DD81E5560C5C

TUI UK Limited
Independent auditor’s report to the members of TUI UK Limited

Other information

The other information comprises the information included in the annual report, other than the financial
statements and our auditor’s report thereon. The directors are responsible for the other information contained
within the annual report. Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and,
except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion
thereon.

Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is
materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the course of the audit, or
otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material
misstatements, we are required to determine whether this gives rise to a material misstatement in the financial
statements themselves. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material
misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.

We have nothing to report in this regard.

Responsibilities of Directors

As explained more fully in the directors’ responsibilities statement, the directors are responsible for the
preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such
internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that
are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.

In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Company's ability to
continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going
concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Company or to cease operations,
or have no realistic alternative but to do so.

Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free
from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor's report that includes our
opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in
accordance with ISAs (UK) will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise
from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be
expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.

A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRC’s
website at: www.fre.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This description forms part of our auditor’s report.

Extent to which the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud

Irregularities, including fraud, are instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations. We design procedures
in fine with our responsibilities, outlined above, to detect material misstatements in respect of irregularities,
including fraud. The extent to which our procedures are capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud is
detailed below.

We considered the nature of the Company's industry and its control environment, and reviewed the Company’s
documentation of their policies and procedures relating to fraud and compliance with laws and regulations. We
also enquired of management and the directors about their own identification and assessment of the risks of
irregularities, including those that are specific to the Company’s business sector.

We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework that the Company operates in, and

identified the key laws and regulations that:

* had a direct effect on the determination of material amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.
These included the UK Companies Act, pensions legislation and tax legislation; and

« do not have a direct effect on the financial statements but compliance with which may be fundamental to
the Company's ability to operate or to avoid a material penalty. These included the Company’s operating
licences, environmental regulations, GDPR, employment law, health and safety and building regulations.

31

Docusign Envelope ID: C68EF8BC-B4CA-4C33-84EF-DD81E5560C5C

TUI UK Limited
Independent auditor’s report to the members of TUI UK Limited

We discussed among the audit engagement team including relevant internal specialists regarding the
opportunities and incentives that may exist within the organisation for fraud and how and where fraud might
occur in the financial statements.

As a result of performing the above, we identified the greatest potential for fraud inthe following area, and our
specific procedures performed to address this are described below:

e Manual journals posted to revenue: In addressing the risk we have updated our understanding of the nature
of the revenue and the associated processes and key controls, and performed focused substantive tests of
detail on the revenue transactions. We have traced a sample of manual journals to supporting evidence and
obtained an understanding of the business rationale for each journal, to ensure that these are valid and have
been recorded appropriately.-

In common with all audits under ISAs (UK), we are also required to perform specific procedures to respond to
the risk of management override. In addressing the risk of fraud through management override of controls, we
tested the appropriateness of journal entries and other adjustments; assessed whether the judgements made in
making accounting estimates are indicative of a potential bias; and evaluated the business rationale of any
significant transactions that are unusual or outside the normal course of business.

In addition to the above, our procedures to respond to the risks identified included the following:

¢ reviewing financial statement disclosures by testing to supporting documentation to assess compliance with
provisions of relevant laws and regulations described as having a direct effect on the financial statements;

¢ performing analytical procedures to identify any unusual or unexpected relationships that may indicate risks
of material misstatement due to fraud;

© enquiring of management and in-house legal counsel concerning actual and potential litigation and claims,
and instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations; and

e reading minutes of meetings of those charged with governance.

Report on other legal and regulatory requirements

Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006

In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit:

« the information given in the strategic report and the directors’ report for the financial year for which the
financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements; and

e the strategic report and the directors’ report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal
requirements..

In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its environment obtained in the course of
the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the strategic report or the directors’ report.

Matters on which we are required to report by exception

Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report in respect of the following matters if, in our opinion:

e adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received
from branches not visited by us; or

e the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or

* certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or

e we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.

We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.

32

Docusign Envelope ID: C68EF8BC-B4CA-~4C33-84EF-DD81E5560C5C

TUI UK Limited
Independent auditor’s report to the members of TUI UK Limited

Use of our report

This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the
Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members
those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest
extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the
Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.

Christopher Robertson (Senior Statutory Auditor)
For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP

Statutory Auditor

London, United Kingdom

24 March 2025

33

Docusign Envelope ID: C68EF8BC-B4CA-4C33-84EF-DD81E5560C5C

TUI UK Limited
Statement of Comprehensive Income for the financial year ended 30 September 2024

Financial year Financial year
ended ended
30 September 30 September
2024 2023
Note £m £m
Revenue 7 6,092 5,709
Cost of sales : (5,312) (5,076)
Gross profit : 780 633
Distribution costs (570) (480)
Administrative expenses : : (273) {254)
Operating loss (63) (101)
Finance income : 9 32 90
Finance expense - 10 (30) ; (84)
Loss before taxation : 11 (61) (95)
Tax credit . . 12 7 29
Loss for the financial year attributable to owners of the
Company . (54) (66)
Other Comprehensive Income
Items that will not subsequently be reclassified to profit
or loss .
Remeasurements of retirement benefit Jiabilities 24 (3) (52)
Deferred tax on remeasurements of retirement benefit
sD ctege 19 1 13
liabilities
(2) (39)
Items that will be reclassified to profit or loss
Movements in cash flow hedge reserve 20 (90) (28)
Movements in cost of hedging reserve 20 (2) -
Deferred tax on movements in cash flow hedge reserve . 19 23 7
(69) (21)
Other Comprehensive Loss for the financial year, net of
tax, attributable to owners of the Company (71) (60)
Total Comprehensive Loss for the financial year, net of
tax, attributable to owners of the Company (125) (126)

Revenue and operating loss are all derived from continuing operations.

34

Docusign Envelope ID: C68EF8BC-B4CA-4C33-84EF-DD81E5560C5C

TUI UK Limited

Statement of Financial Position as at 30 September 2024

Non-current assets

Intangible assets

Property, plant and equipment
Right-of-use assets

Lease receivable assets
Investments in subsidiaries
Loans and receivables

Trade and other receivables
Deferred tax assets

Derivative financial assets

Current assets

Trade and other receivables
Derivative financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents
Lease receivable assets

Total assets

Current liabilities

Trade and other payables
Derivative financial liabilities
Lease liabilities

Provisions for liabilities

Net current liabilities

Total assets less current liabilities

35

Note

13
14
15
22
16
17
18
19
20

18
20

22

21
20
22
23

As at As at
30 September 30 September
2024 2023
£m £m

42 65

- 1

24 30

6 4

905 905

65 -
447 953

98 70

1 1
1,588 2,029
490 456

- 15

90 87

3 1

583 559
2,171 2,588
(2,577) (2,961)
(108) (16)
(20) (14)
(40) (30)
(2,745) (3,021)
(2,162) (2,462)
(574) (433)

Docusign Envelope ID: C68EF8BC-B4CA-4C33-84EF-DD81E5560C5C

TUI UK Limited
Statement of Financial Position as at 30 September 2024

As at As at
30 September 30 September
. 2024 2023
Note £m £m

Non-current liabilities
Derivative financial liabilities 20 (9) -
Lease liabilities 22 (20) (33)
Provisions for liabilities 23 (45) (36)
Retirement benefit liabilities 24 (6) (27)
(80) . (96)
Total liabilities (2,825) (3,117)
Net liabilities (654) (529)

Equity .

Called up share capital 25 851 851
Hedging reserve 26 (60) 7
Cost of hedging reserve 26 (2) -
Retained losses 26 (1,443) (1,387)
Total equity attributable to owners of the Company (654) (529)

The Notes on pages 38 to 75 form part of these financial statements.

The financial statements on pages 34 to 75 were approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Directors
and signed on its behalf by:

‘Signed by:
[ edy Rolfe

B48AEOF4DD7D4B6...
JL Rolfe

Director

Company Number: 2830117 Date: 24 March 2025

36

Docusign Envelope ID: C68EF8BC-B4CA-4C33-84EF-DD81E5560C5C

TUI UK Limited
Statement of Changes in Equity for the financial year ended 30 September 2024

Cost
Called up Hedging of hedging Retained

share capital reserve © reserve losses Total

fm £m ; £m fm £m

At 1 October 2022 851 28 - (1,282) (403)

Loss for the financial year - - - (66) (66)

Other Comprehensive Loss - (21) - (39) (60)
Total Comprehensive Loss for

the financial year - (22) - (105) (126)

At 30 September 2023 851 7 - (1,387) (529)

Loss for the financial year - - - (54) (54)

Other Comprehensive Loss - (67) (2) (2) (71)
Total Comprehensive Loss for

the financial year - (67) (2) (56) (125)

At 30 September 2024 851 (60) (2) (1,443) (654)

37

Docusign Envelope ID: C68EF8BC-B4CA-4C33-84EF-DD81E5560C5C

TUI UK Limited .
Notes to the financial statements for the financial year ended 30 September 2024

1. General information
The Company is a private company, limited by shares, incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies
Act 2006 and registered in England and Wales. The address of its registered office is Wigmore House, Wigmore
Lane, Luton, Bedfordshire, LU2 9TN. The Company’s registered number is 2830117.

The Company’s principal activity continues to be the provision of package holidays and the sale of other related
travel services. It also provides corporate services to the TUI AG group of companies (the “Group”) as a subsidiary
undertaking within the Group as set out in Note 30. The Company expects this to continue for the foreseeable
future.

2. Basis of preparation
The Company is exempt by virtue of Section 400 of the Companies Act 2006 from the requirement to prepare
group financial statements. These financial statements present information about the Company as an individual
undertaking and not about its Group. See Note 30 for details on where the Company is included in consolidated
financial statements.

These financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified for revaluation
to fair value of derivative financial instruments and plan assets and-from externally funded defined benefit pension
schemes recognised at fair value through the Statement of Comprehensive income, in accordance with the
Companies Act 2006 and Financial Reporting Standard 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’ (“FRS 101”).

FRS 101 sets out a reduced disclosure framework for a ‘qualifying entity’ as defined by Financial Reporting Standard
100 ‘Application of financial reporting requirements’ (“FRS 100”) which addresses the financial requirements and
disclosure exemptions in the individual financial statements of qualifying entities that otherwise apply the
recognition, measurement and disclosure exemptions of IFRS. Further details can be found in Note 5.

Going concern
The Directors have assessed the Company's ability to meet its liabilities as they fall due and continue as a going
concern for the period of at least 12 months from the approval date of the financial statements.

This assessment involved a review of the Company's current and anticipated financial position, a review of the ‘3-
year plan’ cash flow forecasts which extend to 30 September 2027, and a review of factors likely to affect the
future development and position of the Company and its fellow group undertakings. The Company’s business
activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development and position, are set out in the review
of the business section of the Strategic Report on pages 3 to 27.

It is necessary for the Directors to consider fellow group undertakings of the TUI AG group due to the nature of
centralised group treasury arrangements in which the Company participates. This includes participation in the
Group’s centralised cash pooling arrangement, managed by TUI AG. The Directors have considered the Company's
access to additional liquidity via the Group’s centralised cash pooling arrangements. The Directors have assessed
the Company's ability to access additional funds in the event of unforeseen adverse events or trading conditions.
This assessment considers the liquidity available to TUI AG and the willingness of TU! AG to make additional funding
availabie to the Company.

The TUI AG group uses syndicated credit facilities and bilateral bank lines as well the liquid funds to secure

sufficient short-term cash reserves. It is the policy of the Group to allow the excess cash of individual Group
companies to be used to finance the cash requirements of other Group companies.

38

Docusign Envelope ID: C68EF8BC-B4CA-4C33-84EF-DD81E5560C5C

2.

TUI UK Limited
Notes to the financial statements for the financial year ended 30 September 2024

Basis of preparation (continued)

Going concern (continued)
Asummary of the TUI AG financing facilities as at 30 September 2024 is shown below:

Instrument Facility Utilisation Maturity date
€m €m
30 Sept 2024 30 Sept 2023 | 30 Sept 2024 | 30 Sept 2023
1,454 Fully Fully
Syndicated undrawn undrawn
credit lines 190 190 136 109 | July 2026
Bank ; (unsecured) 1050 Fully Fully
facilities ” undrawn undrawn
210 210 | July 2025
Schuldschein
32 32 32 | July 2028

On 21 March 2025, TU! AG refinanced the syndicated credit lines which were set to mature in July 2026. The
syndicated credit lines were replaced with a new revolving credit facility which provides €1.89bn (€1.7bn cash and
€0.19bn bonding) of flexible liquidity to the Group. The new revolving credit facility has a five-year tenor and
matures in March 2030. The Schuldschein maturing in July 2025 will be repaid.

In March 2025, TUI AG, agreed to provide financial support to the Company in order that it can continue to meet
its liabilities as they fall due, for the period of at least 12 months from the approval date of the financial statements.
As with any company placing reliance on other group entities for financial support, the Directors acknowledge that
there can be no certainty that this support will continue to be available although, at approval date of these financial
statements they have a reasonable expectation that it will.

Following the above considerations, the Directors have concluded that, after having made appropriate enquiries
{including enquires of relevant fellow group undertakings), in their opinion, no material uncertainties exist that
may cast significant doubt on the Company's ability to continue as a going concern. Accordingly, the financial
statements have been prepared on the going concern basis and do not include any adjustments that would be
necessary if the Company were unable to continue as a going concern.

Functional and presentational currency

Items included in the financial statements of the Company are measured using the currency of the primary
economic environment in which the Company operates (the “functional currency”). The financial statements are
presented in the Company’s functional currency of sterling, rounded to the nearest million pounds, except where
stated otherwise. ~

Amendments to IFRSs

In the current financial year, the Company has applied amendments to IFRSs issued by the International Accounting
Standards Board (IASB) that are mandatorily effective for an accounting period that begins on or after 1 January
2023.

Standard Amendment Impact on Financial Statements

Amendments to IAS 1 The amendments to IAS 1 and IFRS Practice | Disclosures have been updated
Statement 2 are to help preparers in
Disclosure of deciding which accounting and
Accounting Policies measurement methods to disclose in their
financial statements. The amendments
require entities to disclose their material
accounting and measurement policy
information instead of their significant
accounting and measurement policies.

39

Docusign Envelope ID: C68EF8BC-B4CA-4C33-84EF-DD81E5560C5C

TUI UK Limited
Notes to the financial statements for the financial year ended 30 September 2024

3. Amendments to IFRSs (continued)

Standard Amendment [ Impact on Financial Statements

Amendments to lAS8 | The amendments to IAS 8 are to help entities | No material impact
to distinguish between accounting policies
Definition of and accounting estimates. The definition of a
Accounting Estimates change in accounting estimates is replaced
with a new definition of accounting
estimates. It is clarified that a change in an
accounting estimate that results from new
information or new development is not the
correction of an error. .
Amendments to IAS 12 | The amendments clarify that deferred tax | No material impact
assets and liabilities have to be formed when

Deferred tax related to | a transaction gives rise to equal amounts of

Assets and Liabilities deductible and taxable temporary
arising from a Single differences at the same time. The initial
Transaction recognition exemption, according to which

deferred tax assets or liabilities are not
recognised on initial recognition of an asset
or a liability, does not apply to transactions
of this type. .

Amendments to IAS 12 | The Company has adopted the amendments | No material impact
to IAS 12 for the first time in the current year.

International Tax The IASB amends the scope of IAS 12 to
Reform — Pillar Two clarify that the Standard applies to income
Model Rules taxes arising from tax law enacted or

substantively enacted to implement the
Pillar Two model rules published by the
OECD, including tax law that implements
qualified domestic minimum top-up taxes
described in those rules.

The amendments introduce a temporary
exception to the accounting requirements
for deferred taxes in IAS 12, so that an entity
would neither recognise nor disclose
information about deferred tax assets and
liabilities related to Pillar Two income taxes.
Following the amendments, the Company is
required to disclose that it has applied the
exception and to disclose separately its
current tax expense related to Pillar Two
income taxes.

40

Docusign Envelope ID: C68EF8BC-B4CA-4C33-84EF-DD81E5560C5C

TUI UK Limited

Notes to the financial statements for the financial year ended 30 September 2024

3. Amendments to IFRSs (continued)

Standard Amendment

Impact on Financial Statements

IFRS 17 IFRS 17 establishes the principles for the
accounting for insurance contracts and
replaces IFRS 4. The scope of IFRS 17 includes
insurance contracts, reinsurance contracts
and investment contracts with discretionary

profit participation.

Insurance Contracts

Until the replacement of IFRS 4 with
IFRS 17, it was the policy of the
Company to account for borrowing
guarantee contracts in accordance
with IFRS 4, but because no initial
fee had been paid for the financial
guarantee, the associated liability
was measured, as permitted by IFRS
4, in accordance with IAS 37
whereby a liability was recorded if
an economic outflow was deemed
to be probable. Since the
replacement of IFRS 4 by IFRS 17,
such financial guarantees are
excluded from the scope of IFRS 17
and the option within IFRS 4 to
account for such guarantees in
accordance with IAS 37 is no longer
available. Therefore, management
have accounted for the financial
guarantee contracts in accordance
with IFRS 9. This change in
accounting policy was applied
retrospectively, however the
impact on the current and prior
year was not material.

Amendments to IFRS The amendment addresses implementation
17 challenges in the presentation of
comparative information that were
Initial Application of identified after IFRS 17 was published.
IFRS 17 and IFRS 9 —
Comparative

Information

No impact

IFRS 9 Financial Instruments

In the financial year 2018/19, the Company adopted IFRS 9 Financial Instruments for the first time. On transition,
the Company made use of an accounting choice to continue applying the IAS 39 hedge accounting requirements.

From 1 April 2024, the Company has adopted the IFRS 9 hedge accounting requirements. In accordance with the
transition guidance on IFRS 9, the new requirements were applied prospectively. All existing hedging relationships
designated under IAS 39 as at 1 April 2024 also qualified for hedge accounting under IFRS 9 and were hence
assessed to be continuing hedging relationships. There were no financial impacts because of the recalibration of
hedging relationships (so-called rebalancing).

41

Docusign Envelope ID: C68EF8BC-B4CA-4C33-84EF-DD81E5860C5C

TUI UK Limited
Notes to the financial statements for the financial year ended 30 September 2024

Summary of material accounting policies
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below. These
policies have been applied consistently to all the financial years presented.

Revenue

The Company acts as a provider of package holidays including the sale of other related travel services and as a
provider of corporate services for the TUI AG group of companies. Revenue originates solely from package holidays,
commission earned on sales of in-resort excursions and management and corporate fees. This represents the
aggregate amount of revenue receivable for services supplied in the ordinary course of business. Revenue is
measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and is stated net of discounts, value added
tax and monies collected on behalf of the other relevant tax authorities. All revenue originates within the UK.

{i) Revenue recognition
Revenue is recognised when the performance obligations are met.

Revenue in respect of in-house holiday products is recognised either over time in relation to the duration of the
product if the services relate to a period of time, e.g. in the case of multi-day hotel stays or package holidays, or at
a point in time on the day of performance of the performance obligation, e.g. for flight services (not included within
a package) on the day of the flight. Commission earned in respect of third-party travel products, along with related
costs, is recognised when the final balance is due. Commission earned in respect of insurance is recognised at the
time of the transaction. Cancellation income is recognised at the time of the transaction.

(ii) Valuation of revenue

Revenue is recognised on transfer of control over distinct goods or services to the customer. The flights, hotel
accommodation and other services included in a package holiday are transformed into one product for the
customer through a significant integration service provided by the Company as a tour operator within the meaning
of IFRS 15, so that the package holiday constitutes one performance obligation for the Company. This revenue is
recognised when the Company delivers the service for the customer, i.e. on a linear basis over the duration of the
holiday, as customers consume their holiday on a pro rata basis. Further revenue is generated on sale of other
tourist services e.g. seat only, accommodation only etc. Revenue is recognised when the Company has satisfied its
performance obligation, e.g. for flight services on the day of the flight.

Where the Company acts as principal, revenue is stated at the contractual value of goods and services provided.
Where the Company acts as an agent between the service provider and the end customer, revenue is recognised
when earned, typically on balance due date, and presented on a net basis as the difference between the sales price
to the customer and the cost of the services purchased and not the total transaction sales value. Businesses are
identified as being agents dependent on a number of criteria, principally the control exercised over the provision
of service, inventory risk and customer credit risk.

{iii) Client monies received in advance

Client monies at the Statement of Financial Position date relating to holiday and flight services to be delivered after
the year-end are included in Trade and other payables. This recognition basis is in line with IFRS 15.

42

Docusign Envelope ID: C68EF8BC-B4CA-4C33-84EF-DD81E5560C5C

TUI UK Limited
Notes to the financial statements for the financial year ended 30 September 2024

Summary of material accounting policies (continued)

Foreign currency translation

Foreign currency transactions are initially translated into the Company’s functional currency using the prevailing
rate at the date of transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated
at the exchange rate prevailing on the Statement of Financial Position date. Foreign exchange gains and losses
resulting from translation to financial year-end rates are recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income
with the exception of gains and losses to be recognised in equity as qualifying cash flow hedges.

Foreign exchange gains or tosses arising on loans receivable or payable, including lease liabilities, are included in
“Finance income” and “Finance expense” in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.

The results and financial position of all businesses that have a functional currency different from the presentational
currency are translated into the presentational currency as follows:

* assets and liabilities for each Statement of Financial Position presented are translated at the closing rate
at the date of that Statement of Financial Position;

« income and expenses for each Statement of Comprehensive Income are translated at average exchange
rates (unless the average is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing
on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated at the rate on the dates of
each transaction); and

¢ all resulting exchange differences are recognised in Other Comprehensive Income.

Marketing and other direct sales costs

Marketing, advertising and other promotional costs, including those related to the production of brochures, are
expensed when the benefit of the goods or services is made available to the Company, net of any contributions
received from third parties to defray such costs.

Finance income

Finance income recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income mainly comprise bank interest income, net
interest income on retirement benefits, lease interest income, interest income on intercompany receivables and
financial gains on financial instruments.

Finance expense
Finance expense recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income mainly comprise expenses relating to
lease interest, interest charged on intercompany payables and net interest charged on retirement benefits.

Operating loss
Operating loss is stated before investment income and finance activities.

Current and deferred tax

The tax credit for the financial year comprises current and deferred tax and is recognised in the Statement of
Comprehensive Income. Current tax is the expected tax payable (or recoverable) for the current financial year
using the average tax rate for the financial year. Income tax recoverable or payable relates to current tax. To the
extent available, the amount is first recovered from, or surrendered to, other Group companies as group relief.

Deferred tax is recognised on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their
carrying amounts in the financial statements. Deferred tax is determined using tax rates that have been enacted
or substantively enacted at the Statement of Financial Position date and are expected to apply when the related
deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.

A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available
against which the asset can be used. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable
right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred tax assets and liabilities relate
to income taxes levied by the same tax authority.

43

Docusign Envelope ID: C68EF8BC-B4CA-4C033-84EF-DD81E5560C5C

TUI UK Limited
Notes to the financial statements for the financial year ended 30 September 2024

4. Summary of material accounting policies (continued)

Current and deferred tax (continued).

Current and deferred tax are recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income, except when they relate to
items that are recognised in Other Comprehensive Income or directly in equity, in which case, the current and
deferred tax are also recognised in Other Comprehensive Income or directly in equity respectively.

Based on the OECD initiative, numerous jurisdictions are in the process of introducing a global minimum tax. The
aim of this minimum taxation is to ensure that multinational groups with a turnover of over €750m are subject to
a minimum taxation of 15%. As a potentially affected company, the Group is closely following the worldwide
development towards the introduction of global minimum taxation and is analysing the potential impact on TUI.
As the draft regulations published to date are highly complex, the Group has not yet been able to make a reliable
estimate of the future impact. The Group has applied the temporary exception issued by the IASB in May 2023
from the accounting requirements for deferred taxes in IAS 12. Accordingly, the Company neither recognises nor
discloses information about deferred tax assets and liabilities related to Pillar Two income taxes.

Investments in subsidiaries
Investments are recognised at cost less accumulated impairment losses.

Assets under construction

Assets under construction represent the cost of purchasing, constructing and installing property, plant and
equipment ahead of their productive use. No depreciation is charged on these assets until construction is
completed and the assets are transferred to the appropriate category.

Intangible assets
Computer software consists of all licences and software that is not an integral part of the related hardware and is
stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.

Development costs that are directly attributable to the design and testing of identifiable and unique software
platforms controlled by the Company are recognised as intangible assets when the following criteria are met:

e itis technically feasible to complete the software product so that it will be available for use;

® management intends to complete the software product and use or sell it;

° there is an ability to use or sell the software product;

e it can be demonstrated how the software product will generate probable future economic benefits;

« adequate technical, financial and other resources to complete the development and to use or sell the
software product are available; and

«the expenditure attributable to the software product during its development can be reliably measured.

Other development expenditures that do not meet these criteria, together with costs associated with maintaining
computer software programmes, are recognised as an expense as incurred. Development costs previously
recognised as an expense are not recognised as an asset in a subsequent period.

Amortisation is expensed to the Statement of Comprehensive income, to Cost of sales where the assets are
revenue generating and to Administrative expenses in all other cases (e.g. software used in back office functions).

Charges are made on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful economic life as follows:
Computer software 3 to 10 years
Brands and licences 10 years

Useful lives are estimated taking into account the rate of technological change and intensity of use of the assets
and are reviewed together with the assets residual value, and adjusted if appropriate, at the end of each reporting
period. An asset’s carrying amount is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the asset's carrying
amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount.

44

Docusign Envelope ID: C68EF8BC-B4CA-4C33-84EF-DD81E5560C5C

TUI UK Limited
Notes to the financial statements for the financial year ended 30 September 2024

4. Summary of material accounting policies (continued)

Property, plant, equipment and depreciation
Property, plant and equipment are stated at historical purchase cost, including any costs attributable to bringing
an asset to its working condition for its intended use, less accumulated depreciation and impairment.

Depreciation is expensed on a straight-line basis to the residual value over the estimated useful lives of tangible
assets which are as follows:

Leasehold improvements Shorter of period of lease or useful life
Fixtures & fittings 3 to 10 years

Useful lives are estimated taking into account the rate of technological change and intensity of use of the assets
and are reviewed together with the assets residual value, and adjusted if appropriate, at the end of each reporting
period. An asset’s carrying amount is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the asset’s carrying
amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount.

Right-of-use assets and depreciation
The right-of-use assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses,
adjusted for any remeasurements of the lease liability (i.e. remeasurements or lease modifications).

Depreciation is expensed on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the period of the lease or useful life. Useful
lives are estimated taking into account the rate of technological change and intensity of use of the assets and are
reviewed and adjusted if appropriate, at the end of each reporting period. An asset’s carrying amount is written
down immediately to its recoverable amount if the asset’s carrying amount is greater than its estimated
recoverable amount.

Leases
Leases are agreements transferring the right to use an identified asset for a given period of time in return for a
payment.

As a lessee, the Company, as at the Statement of Financial position date, leases property such as office buildings
and high street retail stores, river boats and vehicles.

As a lessor, the Company, as at the Statement of Financial position date, subleases high street retail stores and
vehicles to other members of the TUI AG Group.

The Company as lessee
The Company carries right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for all leases in the Statement of Financial Position. At
the inception of an agreement, the Company evaluates whether it is, or contains, a lease.

Apart from traditional lease, tenancy or leasing contracts, service or capacity agreements may also fall within the
scope of IFRS 16. In connection with the purchase of mixed tourism services, the rental or purchase of the largest
portion of a hotel’s room capacity is identified as a lease component if the Company commits to its contract partner
to purchase a fixed allotment of more than 90% of the hotel’s capacity for a period of more than 12 months, if the
agreement does not include an exemption to return committed capacity for self-marketing by the hotelier, and if
therefore an irrevocable payment obligation exists. For agreements that contain one or several lease components
alongside non-lease components, the Company uses the option not to separate these non-lease components, in
particular for riverboats, IT and hotel capacity leases.

45

Docusign Envelope ID: C68EF8BC-B4CA-4C33-84EF-DD81E5560C5C.

TUI UK Limited
Notes to the financial statements for the financial year ended 30 September 2024

4. Summary of material accounting policies (continued)
Leases (continued)

The Company as lessee (continued) .

At the commencement date, i.e. the date from which the lessee is entitled to exercise the right to use the
underlying asset, a lease liability amounting to the present value of the future lease payments is recognised. The
lease payments include all fixed and in substance-fixed payments less any future lease incentives to be provided
by the lessor. The lease payments also include variable payments linked to an index or an (interest) rate as well as
expected payments from residual value guarantees. Lease payments for the exercise of extension, purchase and
termination options are included if the exercise of these options is assessed as reasonably certain. As a rule, the
lease payments are discounted at the lessor’s interest rate implicit in the lease. If that rate is not known, the
present value is determined using the incremental borrowing rate. After initial measurement, the carrying amount
is increased to reflect interest on the lease liability and reduced to reflect the lease payments made. In addition,
the carrying amount of lease liability is remeasured if there is a modification, a change in the lease term, a change
in the lease payments (e.g. changes to future payments resulting from a change in an index or rate used to
determine such lease payments) or a change in the assessment of an option to purchase the underlying asset. The
interest expense from the subsequent measurement of the lease liability is presented in the interest result.

Variable lease payments not linked to an index nor to an interest rate are recognised through the Statement of
Comprehensive income in the period in which the event or condition that triggers the payment occurs.

Where lease payments have been deferred without an agreement or existing contractual right, any unpaid lease
liability is not derecognised, as the lease liability has neither been paid nor extinguished with legal effect. The
unpaid lease payments remain a ‘lease liability’ until the liability has either been paid or extinguished.

Under IFRS 16, ‘rent concessions’ will usually meet the definition of a lease modification which will require the
lease to be remeasured, unless they were envisaged in the original lease agreement.

In addition, a right-of-use asset is recognised at the commencement date. Right-of-use assets for the leased items
are measured at amortised cost less cumulative depreciation/amortisation and cumulative impairment and
adjusted for revaluations of the lease liability. The cost of a right-of-use asset comprise the present value of the
future lease payments plus initial direct costs and the lease payments made prior to commencement less any lease
incentives received and the estimated costs to be incurred to restore the leased asset to the condition required by
the terms and conditions of the lease (“Day one obligations”). Capitalised right-of-use assets are depreciated ona
straight-line basis over the shorter of the lease term and the expected useful life of the right-of-use asset. If the
lease transfers ownership of the leased asset to the Company by the end of the tease term, or if the lease payments
reflect the future exercise of a purchase option, the right-of-use asset is depreciated over the useful life of the
leased asset. After the commencement date of the lease, depreciation is recognised to reflect the pattern of
consumption of the benefits the asset brings over its useful life. This is applied consistently from period to period
and is recognised in Cost of sales or in Administrative expenses.

Variable rents that do not depend on an index or rate are not included in the measurement of the lease liability
and the right-of-use asset. The related payments are recognised as an expense in the period in which the event or
condition that triggers those payments occurs and are included in Cost of sales or in Administrative expenses.

If a property contract approaches its end date and neither the lessee nor the lessor has triggered notice, then the
lease is deemed to be held over. It is therefore assumed that the lessee can remain in the property for a defined
minimum lease term based upon the law in the relevant jurisdiction. After 1 October 2019, leases holding over in
England, Wales, Northern Ireland and Ireland, will result in a ROU asset and lease liability calculated on the basis
of a six-month lease term, beginning 6 months before the lease goes into holdover. This ROU asset and lease
liability is remeasured to the six-month calculation each month end.

Whereas leases holding over in Scotland will result in a ROU asset and lease liability for the remaining period (12
months + 40 days), beginning if no notice has been served 40 days before the lease expiry. This ROU asset and
lease liability is wound down over the following 12 months until the lease is remeasured again 40 days before the
anniversary of the lease expiry date.

46

Docusign Envelope ID: C68EF8BC-B4CA-4C33-84EF-DD81E5560C5C

TUI UK Limited
Notes to the financial statements for the financial year ended 30 September 2024

Summary of material accounting policies (continued)
Leases (continued)

The Company as lessee (continued)
The Company applies IAS 36 to determine whether a right-of-use asset is impaired and accounts for any identified
impairment loss as described in the ‘impairment of non-financial assets’ policy.

Ifa right-of-use asset is subsequently subleased, an assessment has to be made to determine whether the sublease.
is a finance lease or an operating lease. This assessment is based on the right-of-use asset rather than the asset
arising from the head lease. If the assessment determines that the sublease is a finance lease, then the Company
recognises a lease receivable at an amount equal to the net investment in the lease and derecognises the
underlying leased asset or the right-of-use asset from the head lease. See “The Company as a lessor” section below
for further details.

The Company applies the recognition and measurement exemptions for all short-term leases and low-value asset
leases. A short-term lease is a lease that has a lease term of 12 months or less and does not contain a purchase
option. The lease payments for those leases are recognised as an expense in Cost of sales or in Administrative
expenses on a straight-line basis over the lease term or on another systematic basis.

The Company as lessor

As a lessor, the Company classifies each lease as an operating lease or a finance lease. If the Company as a lessor
has substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of the underlying asset, the lease is classified as
an operating lease. If the lease transfers substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of the
underlying asset to the lessee, the lease is classified as a finance lease.

For subleases, the lease classification is made by reference to the right-of-use assets arising from the head lease
in accordance with IFRS 16.

The lease payments from operating leases are recognised in revenue on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Any initial direct costs incurred in obtaining the lease are added to the carrying amount of the underlying leased
item and depreciated over the lease term on a straight-line basis.

For finance leases, the Company recognises a lease receivable at an amount equal to the net investment in the
lease and derecognises the underlying leased asset or the right-of-use asset from the head lease. The lease
payments made by the lessees are broken down into an interest portion and a redemption portion using the
effective interest rate method so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of
the net investment. The redemption portions received are deducted from the lease receivable. The interest portion
of the payments received is included in Finance income.

Financial assets and financial liabilities

The classification and measurement of financial assets are determined on the basis of the business model used to
manage financial assets, the related contractual cash flows and their objective. At initial recognition of financial
assets, the classification comprises the categories “Financial assets at amortised cost (AC)”, “Financial assets at fair
value through Other Comprehensive Income (FVOCI)” and “Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss
-(FVPL)”.

Financial assets are recognised at the value on the date when the Company undertakes to buy/has a legal right to
recognise the asset. When recognised for the first time, they are either classified as at amortised cost or at fair
value, depending on their objective. Financial assets are classified as financial assets at amortised cost when the
objective of the Company’s business model is to hold the financial assets to collect contractual cash flows, and
when the contractual terms and conditions of the assets exclusively constitute interest and principal payments on
the nominal amount outstanding.

47

Docusign Envelope ID: C68EF8BC-B4CA-4C33-84EF-DD81E5560C5C

TUI UK Limited
Notes to the financial statements for the financial year ended 30 September 2024

Summary of material accounting policies (continued)

Financial assets and financial liabilities (continued) .

For the financial assets held at amortised cost, a loss allowance for expected credit losses is recognised in
accordance with IFRS 9. The expected credit loss using the “simplified approach” requires. the Company to
determine a provision matrix to calculate the expected loss for trade receivables and lease receivables based on
historical data and forward-looking information. The expected credit loss using the “general approach” is based on
either full lifetime expected credit losses or 12-month expected credit losses. A loss allowance for lifetime expected
credit losses is required for a financial instrument if the credit risk of that financial asset has increased since initial
recognition. For all other financial instruments, expected credit losses are measured at an amount equal to the 12
month expected credit losses.

Impairments and reversals of impairments are included in in Administrative expenses, unless material, in which
case they appear in the Statement of Comprehensive Income as “Impairment of financial assets”.

All other financial assets not recognised at amortised cost or at fair value through Other Comprehensive Income
(OCI) must be measured at fair value through profit or loss.

Financial assets are derecognised as at the date on which the rights for payments from assets expire or are
transferred and therefore as at the date on which essentially all risks and rewards of ownership are transferred.
The rights to an asset expire when the rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired. For transfers of
financial assets, it is assessed whether they have to be derecognised in accordance with the derecognition
requirements of IFRS 9.

Financial liabilities are recognised in the Statement of Financial Position if an obligation exists to transfer cash and
cash equivalents of other financial assets to another party. Initial recognition of a liability is expected at its fair
value. For loans taken out, the nominal amount is reduced by discounts retained and transaction costs paid. The
subsequent measurement of financial liabilities is affected at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Financial liabilities are derecognised when the obligations specified in the contract are discharged, cancelled, or
expire.

Impairment of non-financial assets

Non-financial assets not subject to amortisation are tested annually for impairment. Non-financial assets that are
subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that
the carrying amount may not be recoverable. If such an indication exists, the asset’s recoverable amount is
estimated. An impairment loss is recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income whenever the carrying
amount of an asset exceeds its estimated recoverable amount. It is included within Cost of sales where it is deemed
a direct operating expense, or in Distribution costs and Administrative expenses (as applicable), in all other cases.
The recoverable amountis the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs of disposal and value in use. For the purposes
of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are largely independent cash
inflows. .

Cash and cash equivalents

Cash comprises cash at bank. The Company does not invest in deposits held on cail with banks or other short-term
highly liquid investments. Bank overdrafts are shown in current liabilities within the Statement of Financial
Position. Any cash provided to financial and regulatory providers as security, which is no longer accessible by the
Company, has been presented within Other receivables.

48

Dacusign Envelope ID: C68EF8BC-B4CA-4C33-84EF-DD81E5560C5C

TUI UK Limited
Notes to the financial statements for the financial year ended 30 September 2024

4. Summary of material accounting policies (continued)

Hotel prepayments and expenses

Deposit and turnover guarantee payments made to hoteliers in advance of departure or services provided that are
not in the scope of IFRS 16 are recorded as prepayments. Recoveries are made against prepayments when the
accommodation service is delivered by the hotelier in line with contractual agreements. Guarantee payments
made to hoteliers in advance of services provided, that are not in the scope of IFRS 16, are recorded as
prepayments. Guarantee contract payments (where occupancy is fully guaranteed) are recovered over the
duration of each contract for which occupancy is guaranteed, based on committed contract days incurred. Hotel
accommodation expenses are recognised when the Company delivers the service for the customer, i.e. on a linear
basis over the duration of the holiday, as customers consume their holiday on a pro rata basis, matching the
revenue recognition.

Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities
The Company uses foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge foreign currency risks on transactions
denominated in certain foreign currencies.

Derivative financial instruments are measured at the fair value attributable to them on the date the contract is
entered into. Subsequently re-measurement is also recognised at the fair value applicable at the respective
Statement of Financial Position date.

Hedge accounting is exclusively used to account for trades that hedge the commodity price and exchange rate
exposure to variability in the entity's cash flows in its base currency from future transactions, which are highly
likely to occur (cash flow hedges). Hedges of balance sheet items (fair value hedges), i.e. hedges of fair value of an
asset or a liability, are currently not included in hedge accounting.

Upon entering into a transaction, TUI Group documents the hedge relationship between the hedge and the
underlying transaction, the risk management goal and the underlying strategy. In addition, a record is kept of the
assessment, both at the beginning of the hedge relationship and on a continual basis, as to whether the derivatives
used for the hedge are highly effective in compensating for the changes in the fair values or cash flows of the
underlying transactions.

Since 1 April 2024, the entity, in common with TUI Group, has applied the provisions of IFRS 9 to hedge accounting.
For outstanding hedges entered into up to 31 March 2024, the designation scenarios used in accordance with the
provisions of [AS 39 are retained. The method used to recognise gains and losses depends on whether the
derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedging instrument, and on the type of underlying transaction.
The effective and designated portion of the cumulative changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as cash
flow hedges is recognised in equity, in the cash flow hedge reserve.

The cumulative changes in the fair value of the portions of a derivative financial instrument entered into on or
after 1 April 2024 and not designated as a hedging instrument are recognised in equity in a separate item, the cost
of hedging reserve. Any changes in the cumulative fair value of the portions of a derivative financial instrument
entered into by 31 March 2024 and not designated as a hedging instrument are recognised directly through profit
or loss. Any ineffective portion of changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments designated in hedge
accounting is immediately recognised through profit or loss.

The cumulative gains or losses recognised in equity are generally reclassified to the Statement of Comprehensive
Income and recognised as income or expense in the period in which the underlying transaction affects profit or
loss. In the event of hedges of a highly probable forecast cash flow resulting in the recognition of a non-financial
item on the balance sheet, the cumulative gains or losses previously recognised in equity are derecognised from
equity and carried as part of the acquisition cost or prepayment as applicable (basis adjustment).

If a hedge expires, is sold or no longer meets the criteria of IFRS 9 for hedge accounting, the cumulative gain or
loss remains in equity and is only recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income through profit and loss
when the originally hedged forecasted transaction occurs. If the forecasted transaction is no longer expected to
take place, the cumulative gains or losses recognised in equity are recognised immediately through profit and loss.

49

Docusign Envelope ID: C68EF8BC-B4CA-4C33-84EF-DD81E5560C5C

TUL UK Limited
Notes to the financial statements for the financial year ended 30 September 2024

Summary of material accounting policies (continued)

Provisions

A provision is recognised in the Statement of Financial Position when the Company has a legal or constructive
obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to
settle the obligation and the amount has been reliably estimated. Provisions are measured at the present value of
the expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation using a pre-tax rate that reflects current market
assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risk specific to the liabitity. The increase in
the provision due to passage of time is recognised as a financial expense where material.

{i) Litigation and customer claims provisions

A provision is made in respect of litigation and customer claims based upon management and legal counsel
judgements and estimates. The provision is expensed to Cost of sales in the Statement of Comprehensive Income,
expenditure incurred is applied to utilise the provision. A significant proportion of these claims are covered by the
Company's insurance, therefore an associated insurance recovery receivable is included within Other receivables.

Retirement benefit obligations
The Company operates both defined contribution and defined benefit pension schemes.

Defined contribution schemes

The Company’s employees participate in Group-operated defined contribution pension schemes, the assets of
which are held separately from those of the Company in independently administered funds. The retirement benefit
expense disclosed in Note 24 includes contributions payable by the Company to these funds.

Defined benefit schemes
The Company participates in a Group-operated defined benefit pension scheme, the TUI Pension Scheme (UK) (“UK
Scheme”) for the benefit of eligible employees. The scheme closed to future accrual on 31 October 2018.

The assets of the scheme are held separately from those of the Company in independently administered funds and
are measured at fair value in accordance with IAS 19 ‘Employee benefits’.

The Company’s defined benefit obligation in respect of the UK Scheme is calculated by estimating the amount of
future benefit that employees have earned in return.for their service in current and prior periods. That benefit is
discounted to determine its present value and the fair value of any plan assets is deducted in calculating the overall
net retirement benefit liability. The liability discount rate is the yield at the Statement of Financial Position date on
AA credit-rated bonds denominated in the currency of and having maturity dates approximating to the terms of
the Company’s obligations. The calculation is performed by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit
method.

Where the calculation results in a benefit to the Company, the asset recognised is limited to the present value of
any future refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan which are under the control of
the Company.

When the benefits of a plan are amended, the increase/decrease in benefit relating to past services by employees
is recognised as an expense/income in the Statement of Comprehensive Income immediately. Remeasurements
of the net defined retirement benefit liability, including actuarial gains and losses, are recognised immediately in
Other Comprehensive Income.

The interest expense on the net retirement benefit obligation is calculated by applying the applicable discount rate
to the net retirement benefit obligations at the beginning of the financial year, taking account of any changes in
the net retirement benefit obligation during the financial year as a result of contributions and benefit payments.

Share capital
Ordinary shares are classified as equity.

50

Docusign Envelope ID: C68EF8BC-B4CA-4C33-84EF-DD81E5560C5C

5.

TUI UK Limited
Notes to the financial statements for the financial year ended 30 September 2024

Summary of material accounting policies (continued)

Borrowing guarantees

Until the replacement of IFRS 4 with IFRS 17, it was the policy of the Company to account for such guarantees in
accordance with IFRS 4, but because no initial fee had been paid for the financial guarantee, the associated liability
was measured, as permitted by IFRS 4, in accordance with IAS 37 whereby a liability was recorded if an economic
outflow was deemed to be probable. Since the replacement of IFRS 4 by IFRS 17, such financial guarantees are
excluded from the scope of IFRS 17 and the option within IFRS 4 to account for such guarantees in accordance with
IAS 37 is no longeér available. Therefore, management have accounted for the financial guarantee contracts in
accordance with IFRS 9. This change in accounting policy was applied retrospectively.

The resulting liability arising from these guarantee contracts on a combined basis for all guarantors is calculated
based on the higher of the amortised fair value of the guarantees and the expected credit losses at the balance
sheet date. This liability is then allocated between guarantors in proportion to their net assets. If the guarantor
has a net liability position, no liability is recognised.

Share-based payments mc ,
IFRS 2 ‘Share-based payment’ (“IFRS 2”) requires the Company to recognise the cost of share-based remuneration
of its employees.

The Company’s ultimate parent, TUI AG, operates a number of share-based compensation plans.

Where awards under cash-settled schemes in the form of share appreciation rights (‘phantoms’) are granted, in
accordance with IFRS 2, the liabilities are recognised in the financial statements of the Company and re-measured
annually both for the likelihood of vesting and latest share price for the parent company shares. All charges are
recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income with a corresponding adjustment to liabilities.

The method for calculating the value of the granted awards is described in Note 8.

Reduced disclosures permitted by FRS 101

The Company meets the definition of a qualifying entity under FRS 100 ‘Application of Financial Reporting
Requirements’ issued by the FRC. Accordingly, these financial statements were prepared in accordance with
Financial Reporting Standard 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’.

As permitted by FRS 101, the Company has taken advantage of the disclosure exemptions available under that
standard in relation to share-based payments, financial instruments, capital management, presentation of
comparative information in respect of certain assets, presentation of a cash flow statement, standards not yet
effective, certain disclosure in respect of revenue from contracts with customers, impairment of assets, certain
related party transactions, certain disclosure requirements in respect of leases, and certain disclosures in respect
of Pillar Two income taxes.

Where relevant, equivalent disclosures have been given in the group accounts of TUI AG. Details for obtaining the
Group financial statements of TUI AG, can be found in Note 30.

Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty

In the application of the Company’s accounting policies, which are described in Note 4, the Directors are required
to make judgements, estimates and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not
readily apparent from other sources. The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience
and other factors that are considered to be relevant. Actual results may differ from these estimates.

The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates
are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period or in the period

of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.

The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or where assumptions and estimates are material
to the carrying value of assets, liabilities and total comprehensive income for the year are disclosed as follows:

51

Docusign Envelope ID: C68EF8BC-B4CA-4C33-84EF-DD81E5560C5C

TUI UK Limited
Notes to the financial statements for the financial year ended 30 September 2024

6. Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty (continued)

Critical accounting judgements

The following are the critical judgements, apart from those involving estimations (which are dealt with separately
below), that the Directors have made in the process of applying the Company’s accounting policies and that have
the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements.

{i) Provisions for litigation and customer claims
In accounting for such provisions, judgement is required in determining occurrence probability and maturity.
Details of provisions made and the basis by which provisions have been calculated are disclosed in Note 23.

(ii) Borrowing guarantees

The Company, jointly and severally, along with 18 other fellow group undertakings (Sept-23: 17 group
undertakings), has provided guarantees to the lenders of certain borrowings of TUI AG, its ultimate parent
undertaking. Management has estimated the liability under IFRS 9 arising from these financial guarantee contracts
and applied judgment in determining its policy for how to allocate this liability between the guarantors and has
determined that a reasonable method to do so is in proportion to their net assets.

Key sources of estimation uncertainty

Key estimates concerning the future, and other key sources of uncertainty at the reporting period that might have
a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next
financial year, are discussed below. .

(i) Retirement benefit obligations

The costs of providing pensions are expensed to the Statement of Comprehensive Income in accordance with IAS
19 ‘Employee benefits’ over the period during which benefit is derived from the employee’s services. The costs are
assessed on the basis of key financial and demographic assumptions. The key financial assumptions are i) future
retirement benefit increases, ii) the discount rate for discounting the liabilities of the scheme; and iii) the inflation
rate. The key demographic assumption used is the mortality rate, which is based on actuarial data. The discount
rate is derived from AA rated corporate bond yields, whilst the inflation rate is derived from market yields on fixed
and index linked giits. The selection of different rates for each of the assumptions could materially affect the future
results of the Company and the net retirement benefit asset or liability at the Statement of Financial Position date.
A sensitivity analysis is provided in Note 24.

7. Revenue

Financial year Financial year

"ended ended

30 September 30 September

2024 2023

£m £m

Tourism services 5,857 5,504
Management service fees 235 205
6,092 5,709

52

Docusign Envelope ID: C68EF8BC-B4CA-4C33-84EF-DD81E5560C5C

TUL UK Limited
Notes to the financial statements for the financial year ended 30 September 2024

Employees and Directors
Employee costs for the Company during the financial year were:

Financial year Financial year

ended ended

30 September 30 September

2024 2023

£m fm

(restated)

Wages and salaries 139 116
Share based payments - cash-settled : 1 -
Social security costs 14 12
Other retirement benefit expenses (Note 24) 5 6
. 159 134

The average monthly number of persons (including Directors) employed by the Company during the financial year
was:

Financial year Financial year

ended ended

30 September 30 September

2024 2023

Number Number

(restated)

Administration 1,710 1,477
Selling and distribution 1,010 982
Tour operations 68 74
Total 2,788 2,533

Restatement of prior year comparatives

During the year, the Company conducted a review of its employment records to check the allocation of employees
across the Group. This review identified that certain employees were incorrectly attributed to the wrong company
within the Group and that the employee costs and average monthly number of persons employed disclosures
made by the Company in the prior year were incorrect. As a result, the comparative figures for the prior year have
been restated to reflect the correct allocation. The restatement has no impact on the previously reported profit,
net assets, or cash flows of the Company.

Defined contribution pension schemes

The Company’s employees participate in Group-operated defined contribution pension schemes, the assets of
which are held separately from those of the Company in independently administered funds. The amounts charged
to the Statement of Comprehensive Income in respect of retirement benefit costs are the contributions payable in
the financial year, being £5m (2023: £5m). Differences between contributions payable in the financial year and
contributions actually paid are shown as Trade and other payables in the Statement of Financial Position. Total
amounts outstanding in respect of defined contribution pension schemes amount to £5m (2023: £nil).

Directors’ remuneration
The Directors’ remuneration analysed under the headings required by company law is set out below:

Financial year Financial year

ended ended

30 September 30 September

2024 2023

£’000 . £'000

Directors’ emoluments 1,515 1,033
Loss of office (redundancy) 407 -
Company contributions to money purchase schemes 96 ; 50

2,018 1,083

53

Docusign Envelope iD: C68EF8BC-B4CA-4C33-84EF-DD81E5560C5C

TUI UK Limited
Notes to the financial statements for the financial year ended 30 September 2024 .

Employees and Directors (continued)

Directors’ remuneration (continued) |

One (2023: one) Director of the Company was employed and remunerated during the period by another company
within the Group, which makes no recharge to the Company. As the qualifying services provided to the Company
by this Director were incidental compared to their main role, an appropriate apportionment of their remuneration
was allocated and included above.

During the financial year:
*® Phantom awards (share appreciation rights which are performance related awards measured over a
three-year period) in the TUI AG long-term incentive scheme, granted in previous years vested to four
(2023: none) Directors;
® Phantom awards in TUI AG granted in previous years remained outstanding at the end of the year to six
(2023: three) Directors;
© — Six (2023: three) of the Directors were awarded phantom awards that remained outstanding at the end
of the year.
These share awards will be paid by other Group companies.

The highest paid Director’s remuneration, analysed under the headings required by company law, is set out below:

Financial year Financial year

ended ended

30September 30 September

2024 2023

£’000 £000

Emoluments 568 676
Loss of office (redundancy) 407 -
Company contributions to money purchase schemes 10 10
985 686

In respect of the highest paid Director, no previous share awards in Group companies vested during the financial
year. Share-based awards granted under long-term incentive schemes in prior and the current years remained
outstanding at the end of the year. This Director is not a member of a defined benefit pension scheme.

Share awards

Certain employees of the Company are eligible to participate in share award schemes. The principal share award
scheme which is designed to link remuneration to the future performance of the Group is the TU] AG Performance
Share Plan (TU! AG PSP).

TUI AG Performance Share Plan (TUI AG PSP)

In each financial year, a new period of performance measures commences, spanning the current plus two further
years. As a result, each performance measurement period has a general term of three years. At the beginning of
each performance period, each participant’s award is translated into phantom shares based on the average price
of TUI AG shares (‘preliminary number of phantom shares’). The average share price is calculated based on the
share prices during the 20 days prior to the beginning of any financial year. The entitlement under the long-term
incentive programme arises upon completion of the three-year performance period.

Upon the completion of the three-year performance period, the preliminary number of shares is multiplied by the
degree of target agreement. This degree is determined by the level of growth in EPS during the performance
period.

The rank is subsequently converted into a percentage, which is the degree of target achievement. If the degree of
target achievement is less than 25%, no preliminary phantom shares are remunerated. If the degree of target
achievement exceeds 25%, it is multiplied by the number of preliminary phantom shares granted, subject to a cap
of 175%. At the end of the three-year performance period, the number of phantom shares determined in this way
is multiplied by the average price (20 trading days) of TUI AG shares, and the resulting amount is paid out in cash.
The maximum amount payable under the long-term incentive programme has been capped at 240% for each
participant.

54

Docusign Envelope ID: C68EF8BC-B4CA-4C33-84EF-DD81E5560C5C

TUI UK Limited
Notes to the financial statements for the financial year ended 30 September 2024

8. Employees and Directors (continued)

TUI AG Performance Share Plan (TUI AG PSP) (continued)

In the case of a capital increase from company funds, the number of preliminary phantom shares would increase
in the same ratio as the nominal value of the share capital. In the case of a capital decrease without return of
capital, the number of preliminary phantom shares would decrease in the same ratio as the nominal value of the
share capital. In the case of a capital increase against contributions, a capital decrease with return of capital or any
other capital or structural measures that have an effect on the share capital and cause a material change in the
value of the TUI AG share, the number of preliminary phantom shares would also be adjusted. The TUL AG
Supervisory Board is entitled, at reasonable discretion, to make adjustments to neutralize any negative or positive
effects from such capital or structural measures. The same rule applies in the case of a change in share price due
to the payment of an unusually high superdividend. The TUI AG Supervisory Board has made use of this
authorisation for the capital increases carried out in January and October 2021, March 2023 and the capital split
in February 2023.

If the conditions mentioned above are met, upon expiry of the performance period, the awards are automatically
exercised. If the conditions are not met, the awards are forfeited. The service period will be restricted to the end
of the employment period if plan participants leave the Company, as long as employment is not terminated due
to a significant reason within the sphere of responsibility of the participant or by the participant without cause.

At 30 September 2024 the awards allocated and outstanding under cash-settled schemes were as follows:

As at As at

30 September 30 September

2024 2023

Number of Number of

shares shares

TUI AG PSP scheme 410,911 248,588

410,911 248,588

During the year, a charge to staff costs of £1.1m (2023: £0.3m) was recognised. At 30 September 2024, liabilities
of £1.2m (2023: £0.5m) relating to entitlements under the cash-settled schemes were classified within accruals.

Cash-settled awards - Share Appreciation Rights (Phantoms)
The development of TUI AG shares granted under phantom schemes was as follows:

Financial year Financial year

ended ended

30 September 30 September

2024 2023

Number of Number of

awards awards

Outstanding at beginning of the year 248,588 1,025,363
Forfeited due to Capital Split (1/10) - (1,916,217)
Forfeited during the year (68,097) (31,936)
Vested during the year (94,095) -
Transfer to another Group Company - (4,088)
Allocated due to subscription rights - 71,666
Granted during the year 324,515 1,103,800
Outstanding at the end of the year 410,911 248,588

During the year 94,095 (2023: nil) awards vested while the weighted average share price of TUI AG for share awards
was £5.21 (2023: £1.32).

Further information on the share-based payments can be found on pages 239-241 of the TUI AG Annual Report
2024. Details of where these financial statements can be obtained are in Note 30 of these financial statements

55

Docusign Envelope ID: C68EF8BC-B4CA-4C33-84EF-DD81E5560C5C

10.

11.

TUL UK Limited

Notes to the financial statements for the financial year ended 30 September 2024

Finance income

Bank interest

Interest receivable from Group companies
Finance lease interest

Other interest received

Retirement benefit interest (Note 24)
Foreign exchange gains

Finance expense

Lease interest

Interest payable to Group companies
Retirement benefit interest (Note 24)
Foreign exchange losses

Loss before taxation

lass hefore taxation is stated after expensing/(crediting):

Amortisation of intangible assets (Note 13)

Depreciation on right-of-use assets (Note 15)

Management charges

Staff costs (Note 8)

Reversal of impairment on financial assets - expected credit loss (Note 18)
Loss allowance on trade receivables — amounts written off (Note 18)
Foreign exchange gains

Net loss from derivatives accounted at fair value through profit or loss
including those recognised in Cost of Sales (Note 20)

Auditor's remuneration was as follows:

Fees for the audit of the Company
Total fees paid to the Company’s auditor

56

Financial year
ended

30 September
2024

£m

3

23

1

4

1

32

Financial year
ended

30 September
2023

£m

3

83

1
1
2

90

Financial year
ended

30 September
2024

£m

5

24

1

30

Financial year
ended

30 September
2023

£m

6

77

1

84

Financial year
ended

30 September
2024

£m

23

19
159
(7)

(1)

79

Financial year
ended

30 September
2023

£m

(restated)

25

39
134

(3)
(10)

58

Financial year

Financial year

ended ended

30 September 30 September
2024 2023

fm fm

3 3

3 3


Docusign Envelope ID: C68EF8BC-B4CA-4C33-84EF-DD81E5560C5C

TUI UK Limited
Notes to the financial statements for the financial year ended 30 September 2024

11. Loss before taxation (continued)
The disclosures in respect of fees for 'Other services' have not been provided because the consolidated financial
statements of the Company's ultimate parent have included the required disclosures on a consolidated basis.

12. Tax credit
The tax credit can be summarised as follows:

(i) Analysis of tax credit in the year

Financial year Financial year
ended ended
30 September 30 September
2024 2023
£m £m
Current tax:
Amounts receivable from fellow subsidiaries for group relief {8) (14)
Adjustment in respect of prior years 5 (9)
Total current tax (3) (23)
Deferred tax: :
Origination and reversal of temporary differences:
- Current year (3) * (5)
- Effect of changes in tax rates (1) (1)
Total deferred tax (Note 19) (4) (6)
Total tax credit in the Statement of Comprehensive Income (7) (29)
Tax on recognised gains and losses within Other Comprehensive Income:
Financial year Financial year
ended ended
30 September 30 September
2024 2023
£m £m
Deferred tax on remeasurements of retirement benefit liabilities (Note 19) (1) (23)
Deferred tax on movements in cash flow hedge reserve (Note 19) (23) (7)
(24) (20)

{ii) Factors affecting the tax credit in the year

The tax credit (2023: credit) for the financial year ended 30 September 2024 is lower than (2023: higher than) the
standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 25.0% (2023: 22.0%). The standard rate of corporation tax increased
to 25% from the 1 April 2023 resulting in a blended rate of 22% for the prior year. The differences are shown in
the table below:

57

Docusign Envelope ID: C68EF8BC-B4CA-4C33-84EF-DD81E5560C5C

TUI UK Limited
Notes to the financial statements for the financial year ended 30 September 2024

12. Tax credit (continued)

(ii) Factors affecting the tax credit in the year (continued)

Financial year _ Financial year

ended ended

30 September 30 September

2024 2023

£m £m

Loss before taxation (61) (95)
Loss multiplied by the effective standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of

25.0% (2023: 22.0%) (15) (21)

Effects of:

- Adjustments in respect of prior years . 5 (9)

- Expenses not deductible 1 -

- Tax rate changes - (1)

- Non qualifying assets 2 2

Total tax credit in the Statement of Comprehensive Income {7) (29)

(iii) Factors affecting the future tax credit

At the Statement of Financial Position date, Finance (No 2) Act 2024 had been substantively enacted confirming
that the main UK corporation tax rate would remain at 25% having increased to this rate from 1 April 2023.
Therefore, at 30 September 2024, deferred tax assets and liabilities have been calculated based on the rate that is
expected to apply when the deferred tax is reversed. The rate of taxation is expected to follow the main UK
corporation tax rate in future periods.

13. Intangible assets

Internally-
generated Computer Brands and
software software licences Total
£m £m £m fim
Cost:
At 1 October 2023 . 107 15 100 222
Disposals (14) (3) - (17)
At 30 September 2024 93 12 100 205

Accumulated amortisation and impairment:

At 1 October 2023 82 12 63 157
Charge for the year 12 2 9 23
Disposals {14) (3) - (17)
At 30 September 2024 80 11 72 163

Net book value (NBV):

At 30 September 2024 13 1 28 42
At 30 September 2023 25 3 37 65

The Company’s core reservations system and related applications have a NBV of £11m and an average remaining
useful life of 2.0 years (2023: £23m and an average remaining useful life of 1.9 years).

Brands and Licenses mainly relates to the First Choice brand at a NBV of £28m and a remaining amortisation period
of 3 years (2023: £37m and with a remaining amortisation period of 4 years).

58

Docusign Envelope ID: C68EF8BC-B4CA-4C33-84EF-DD81E5560C5C

TUI UK Limited
Notes to the financial statements for the financial year ended 30 September 2024

14. Property, plant and equipment

Fixtures and Assets under Leasehold
fittings construction improvements Total
£m £m £m £m
Cost:
At 1 October 2023 - 1 1 2
Reclassification 1 (1) - -
Disposals (1) - - (1)
At 30 September 2024 - - 1 1
Accumulated depreciation:
At 1 October 2023 - - 1 1
At 30 September 2024 - - 1 1
Net book value (NBV):
At 30 September 2024 - - -
At 30 September 2023 - 1 : 1

15. Right-of-use assets
Riverboats,

including
Property related fixtures
leases and fittings Vehicle leases Total
Cost: fm £m £m £m
At 1 October 2023 11 57 : - 68
Additions 1 - 1 2
At 30 September 2024 12 57 1 70
Accumulated depreciation and
impairment:
At 1 October 2023 6 32 - 38
Charge for the financial year 2 6 - 8
At 30 September 2024 8 38 - 46

Net book value:
At 30 September 2024 4 19 1 24
At 30 September 2023 5 25 - 30

Information on the associated lease liabilities and details regarding the maturities of the lease payments not yet
made at the Statement of Financial Position date are provided in Note 22, ‘Leases’.

Expenses from leases with the Company as the lessee

Financial year Financial year

ended ended

30 September 30 September

2024 2023

£m £m

Depreciation of rights-of-use assets 8 9
Interest expenses from lease liabilities 5 6

aie SD

Docusign Envelope ID: C68EF8BC-B4CA-4C33-84EF-DD81E5560C5C

TUI UK Limited
Notes to the financial statements for the financial year ended 30 September 2024

16. Investments in subsidiaries .
Investments

in subsidiaries
fim

Cost:
At 1 October 2023 and at 30 September 2024 1,637
Impairment: :
At 1 October 2023 and at 30 September 2024 732
Net book value:
At 30 September 2023 and at 30 September 2024 905

The Company carried out a review of its investments in subsidiaries for indicators of impairment and indicators of
impairment reversals at the reporting date. The review led to the recognition of impairment losses of £nil (2023:
f£nil) and reversals of impairment losses of £nil (2023: £nil).

Additions: .
Additions in investments comprise the following transactions which occurred during the year ended 30 September
2024: .
Shares Total
Date of acquired Par value consideration
Investments addition (number) of share £
TUI Pensions Restricted SPV Limited August 2024 1 £1.00 1
1
Disposals

During the financial year, the fully impaired investment in Morvik Eurl was disposed of, which generated a profit
on disposal of £nil.

Skymead Leasing Limited and First Choice Travel Shops Limited were dissolved on 16 July 2024. The Company had
indirect investments in these companies.

List of investments in subsidiaries at 30 September 2024:

% held by Total %

directly by held by

Country of Place of the Group

Name of undertaking incorporation | business Share class Company | companies
Elena SL €6.10 Ordinary shares | 100 100

First Choice Holiday United United £1.00 Ordinary shares

Hypermarkets Limited Kingdom Kingdom
First Choice Holidays & United United £0.10 Ordinary shares
Flights Limited Kingdom Kingdom

“First Choice Land (Ireland) | Republic of

Republic of | €1.25 Ordinary shares
Limited Ireland :

Ireland

Lunn Poly (Jersey) Limited | Jersey .

Marella Cruises Limited United United £1.00 Ordinary shares 100 100
Kingdom Kingdom

TU) Airways Limited United United £1.00 Ordinary shares 100 100
Kingdom Kingdom

TUI Group UK Trustee United United £1.00 Ordinary shares 100

Limited Kingdom Kingdom
TUI Holidays Ireland Republic of Republic of | €1.25 Ordinary shares 100
Limited lreland €1.25 Preference 100
shares
TUI treland Limited United Republic of | £1.00 Ordinary shares 100 100
Ireland £1.00 Preference 100 100

Kingdom

shares

60

Docusign Envelope ID: C68EF8BC-B4CA-4C33-84EF-DD81E5560C5C

TUI UK Limited
Notes to the financial statements for the financial year ended 30 September 2024

16. Investments in subsidiaries (continued)

List of investments in subsidiaries at 30 September 2024 (continued):

% held by Total %

directly by held by

Country of Place of the Group

Name of undertaking incorporation | business Share class Company | companies

TUI Pensions Restricted
SPV Limited

United £1.00 Ordinary shares 100
Kingdom

TUI UK Retail Limited United United £1.00 Ordinary shares
Kingdom Kingdom

TUI UK Transport Limited United United £1.00 Ordinary shares 100 100
Kingdom Kingdom

The registered address of each subsidiary listed above is dependent upon the country of incorporation and is as

foilows:
Country of incorporation | Registered address
Jersey 55 1/2 King Street, St Helier, Jersey, JE2 4WE.
Spain Complejo Mirral Balear, Cami de Son Fangos 100, Torre A, 2a planta, oficinas 3A y
4A, 07007 Palma de Mallorca. .
United Kingdom Wigmore House, Wigmore Lane, Luton, Bedfordshire, LU2 9TN
Republic of Ireland

17. Non-current interest-bearing loans and receivables

As at As at

30 September 30 September

2024 2023

£m £m

Amounts due from subsidiary undertakings 65 ; -
65 :

The loan was advanced by the Company to TUI Pensions Restricted SPV Limited (“the Borrower”, and wholly owned
subsidiary of the Company), for the purpose of funding pension related escrow bank accounts in the name of the
Borrower. The Company will earn interest on the loan equivalent to the amount of interest that has been credited
into each escrow account in the name of the Borrower.

This loan agreement shall terminate, unless otherwise agreed by TUI Group UK Trustee Limited and TUI UK Limited,
on 30 September 2032, or if earlier, when the TUI UK Scheme’s liabilities have been secured in full with an
insurance company or otherwise transferred out of the TU] UK Scheme and, in either case, the winding up of the
TUI UK Scheme has been completed.

61

Docusign Envelope ID: C68EF8BC-B4CA-4C33-84EF-DD81E5560C5C

18.

19.

TUI UK Limited
Notes to the financial statements for the financial year ended 30 September 2024

Trade and other receivables

As at 30 September 2024 As at 30 September 2023
Non-current Current Non-current Current
im £m £m im
Trade receivables - 1s - 10
Amounts due from parent
. 45 - 3 -
undertakings
Amounts due from entities with
han 5 - 6 -
significant control
Amounts due from other Group, 189 . 701 _
undertakings
Amounts due from subsidiary 147 . 175 .
undertakings
Other receivables 44 262 43 256
Group relief - 45 - 68
Prepayments 17 155 25 117
Accrued income - 4 - 1
VAT - 9 - 4
447 490 953 456

Non-current prepayments of £17m (2023: £25m) principally comprise hotel deposits and advances. There are also
£59m (2023: £46m) of hotel deposits and advances included in current prepayments.

Other receivables include monies held as security by the regulator and financial providers. It also includes amounts
recoverable from the Company’s insurers. The amounts payable to claimants which are recoverable from our
insurers are recognised on a gross basis, as the Company has the obligation to the claimant not the insurer.

Amounts due from Group undertakings

Amounts due from Group undertakings are unsecured and repayable on demand. The total amounts due from
Group undertakings amount to £431m (2023: £953m). £106m of this is interest free (2023: £110m), whilst the
remaining balance of £325m (2023: £843m) bears interest at a rate of the Sterling Overnight Index Average
(“SONIA”), Euro Interbank Offered Rate (“EURIBOR”) or Secured Overnight Financing Rate (“SOFR”) depending on
the underlying currency denomination.

Expected credit losses of £7m were written back (2023: £3m) in the year. Expected credit losses of £1m were

written off (2023: £2m) in the year. FRS 101 exemption has been taken from disclosure of transactions with wholly
owned subsidiaries of the TUI AG group.

Deferred tax assets

As at As at

30 September 30 September

2024 2023

£m £m

Depreciation in excess of capital allowances 66 63

Other short term temporary differences 1 -
Financial instruments 29

Retirement benefits 2 7

98 70

62

Docusign Envelope ID: C68EF8BC-B4CA-4C33-84EF-DD81E5560C5C

TUI UK Limited :
Notes to the financial statements for the financial year ended 30 September 2024

19. Deferred tax assets (continued)

20.

Movements in deferred taxation during the current year are analysed as follows:

Depreciation Other
in excess of short term
Deferred tax assets/ capital temporary Financial Retirement
(liabilities) allowances differences _ instruments benefits Total
£m £m fm £m £m
At 1 October 2022 58 - (15) 1 44
Credited/(expensed) to the
Statement of Comprehensive 5 - 8 (7) 6
Income
Credited to Other . _ 7 13 20
Comprehensive Income .
At 30 September 2023 63 - - 7 70
Credited/(expensed) to the
Statement of Comprehensive 3 1 6 (6) 4
Income
Credited to Other . . 23 1 24
Comprehensive Income :
At 30 September 2024 66 1 29 2 98

Depreciation in excess of capital allowances principally relates to temporary differences in respect of property,
plant and equipment. Other short-term temporary differences principally relate to accruals which will obtain a tax
reduction upon settlement. Financial instrument temporary differences arise in respect of financial instruments
accounted for under IFRS 9. Deferred tax on retirement benefit liabilities arise in respect of retirement benefit
schemes accounted for under IAS 19.

A deferred tax asset has not been recognised in respect of trade losses as there is insufficient evidence that the
asset will be recovered. The amount of the asset not recognised is £171m (2023: £165m). The asset will be
recovered if there are suitable profits in the future against which to offset the losses.

There are no other unrecognised deferred tax assets nor unprovided deferred tax liabilities at either 30 September

2024 or 30 September 2023. In the next 12 months deferred tax assets of £1m are expected to reverse.

Derivative financial instruments

As at 30 September 2024 As at 30 September 2023
Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities
£m £m £m £m
To hedge currency 1 (117) 16 (16)
Total 1 (117) 16 (16)
Of which
Current - (108) 15 (16)
Non-current 1 (9) 1 _ se
Total 1 (117) 16 (16)

Fair value measurements

Derivatives are valued in the market using discounted cash flow techniques. These techniques incorporate
observable prices in active markets, such as interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. These market-
based inputs are used in the discounted cash flow calculation incorporating the instrument’s term, notional
amount, volatility and discount rate.

Since April 1, 2024, hedge accounting based on the rules of IFRS 9 is applied to forecast transactions. The rules of
IAS 39 have been applied on hedges traded until 31 March 2024.

63

Docusign Envelope ID: C68EF8BC-B4CA-4C33-84EF-DD81E5560C5C

TUI UK Limited
Notes to the financial statements for the financial year ended 30 September 2024 :

20. Derivative financial instruments (continued)

21.

Forward foreign exchange contracts are used by the Company to mitigate against the risk of adverse foreign
exchange rate movements on future expected cash flows in foreign currency. As at end February 2025, the
Company is hedged forwards in line with its hedging policy.

The full fair value of a derivative is classified as a non-current asset or liability if the remaining maturity of the
derivative is more than 12 months and as a current asset or liability if the maturity of the derivative is less than 12
months.

The amount recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income that arises from derivatives amounts to a loss
of £79m (2023: £58m).

Cash flow hedges have had hedge accounting applied and are disclosed within Other Comprehensive Income and
amount to a loss of £90m (2023: £28m).

The “Cost of Hedging” recognised under IFRS9 on or after 1 April 2024 is disclosed within Other Comprehensive
Income and amounted to a loss of £2m.

Trade and other payables

Asat As at

30 September 30 September

2024 2023

Current Current

£m £m

Trade payables 503 513
Amounts due to entities with significant control 9 8
Amounts due to other Group undertakings 148 89
Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings 449 908
Taxation and social security 16 17
Other payables 17 16
VAT - 14
Client monies received in advance 1,276 1,199
Accruals 159 197
2,577 2,961

Amounts due to Group undertakings

Amounts due to Group undertakings are unsecured and repayable on demand. The total amounts due to Group
undertakings amount to £606m (2023: £1,005m), of which £24m is interest free (2023: £121m) whilst the
remaining balance of £582m (2023: £884m) bears interest at a rate of the SONIA +1%, EURIBOR +1% or SOFR +1%
depending on the underlying currency denomination.

FRS 101 exemption has been taken from disclosure of transactions with wholly owned subsidiaries of the TUL AG
group.

Amounts due to IATA ; .

“At 30 September 2024, included within the Accruals balance is £1,772,760.76 (2023: £1,126,698.72) due to IATA

(International Air Transport Association).

64

Docusign Envelope ID: C68EF8BC-B4CA-4C33-84EF-DD81E5560C5C

TUI UK Limited
Notes to the financial statements for the financial year ended 30 September 2024

21, Trade and other payables (continued)

Client monies received in advance
The aggregate amount of client moniés received in advance comprises:

£m
At 1 October 2022 1,171
Revenue recognised - included in balance at beginning of period (1,083)
Increase due to cash received - excluding amounts recognised as revenue during period 1,141
Customer refund repayments (30)
At 30 September 2023 1,199
Revenue recognised - included in balance at beginning of period (950)
Increase due to cash received - excluding amounts recognised as revenue during period 1,157
Customer refund repayments (130)
At 30 September 2024 1,276

22. Leases

The Company as a lessee

As a lessee, the Company, as at the Statement of Financial position date, leases property such as office buildings,
high street retail stores, river boats and vehicles. The rent in all of these cases is fixed over the lease term. The
terms and conditions of the lease agreements are individually negotiated. No residual value guarantees were
provided for the leases.

Lease liabilities

Maturity analysis
As at As at
30 September 30 September
2024 2023
£m £m
Not later than one year 20 14
Later than one year and not later than five years 18 31
Later than five years 2 2
40 47
As at As at
30 September 30 September
2024 . 2023
£m fm

Analysed as:

Non-current 20 33
Current 20 14
: 40 47

The cash outflows for leases in the financial year totalled £16m (2023: £15m).
The Company as lessor

As a lessor, the Company, as at the Statement of Financial position date, subleases vehicles and high street retail
stores to other members of the TUI AG Group.

65

Docusign Envelope ID: C68EF8BC-B4CA-4C33-84EF-DD81E5560C5C

TUI UK Limited

Notes to the financial statements for the financial year ended 30 September 2024

22. Leases (continued)
The Company as lessor (continued)

Lease receivable assets

The table below comprises a maturity analysis of the discounted annual lease receivable from leases in which the

Company is the lessor:

Maturity analysis

Not later than one year

Later than one year and not later than five years

Later than five years

Analysed as:
Non-current
Current

As at As at
30 September 30 September
2024 2023
fm £m
3 1
4 2
2 2
9 5
As at As at
30 September 30 September °
2024 2023
fm £m
6 4
3 1
9 5

Expected credit losses of £nil (2023: Enil) were provided for in the year.

The table below comprises a maturity analysis of the undiscounted annual payments from leases in which TUI UK

Limited is the lessor:

Expected minimum lease payments

30 September 2024
Up to More than
1 year 1-2 years 2-3years 3-4years 4-5 years 5 years Total
fm £m fm £m £m £m fm
Operating lease contracts 3 3 2 1 : 4 13
3 3 2 1 : 4 13
30 September 2023
Up to ' More than
1 year 1-2years 2-3years 3-4years 4-S years 5 years Total
£m £m £m fm £m £m £m
Operating lease contracts 1 1 1 - - 5 8
, 1 1 1 - - 5 8

66

Docusign Envelope ID: C68EF8BC-B4CA-4C33-84EF-DD81E5560C5C

TUI UK Limited
Notes to the financial statements for the financial year ended 30 September 2024

23. Provisions for liabilities

24,

Analysis of the movements during the financial year:

Litigations and
customer claims Other Total
‘£m £m £m
At 1 October 2023 60 6 66
Provided during the year 23 3 26
Utilised during the year (6) (1) (7)
At 30 September 2024 77 8 85
Analysed as:
30 September 2024
- Non-current 44 1 45
- Current 33 7 40
- Total 77 8 85
30 September 2023
- Non-current 35 1 36
- Current 25 5 30

- Total 60 ee

Litigations and customer claims

A provision is made in respect of litigation and customer claims based upon management and legal counsel
judgements and estimates. A significant proportion of these are covered by our insurance, therefore an associated
insurance recovery receivable is included within Other receivables to the extent that it is considered recoverable.
The amounts payable to claimants which are recoverable from our insurers is recognised on a gross basis, as the
Company has the obligation to the claimant not the insurer.

Other provisions .

The other provision of £8m (2023: £6m) includes: restructuring provisions of £1m (2023: £1m) relating to business
reorganisation and redundancy; dilapidation provisions of £1m (2023: £1m) relating to properties in accordance
with IAS 37, as these are not “Day one obligations” as specified by IFRS 16; £1m (2023: £nil) relating to share based
payments; and £5m (2023: £4m) relating to tax liabilities.

Retirement benefit obligations

Pensions
The Company operates both defined contribution and defined benefit pension schemes.

Defined contribution schemes

The Company’s employees participate in Group-operated defined contribution pension schemes, the assets of
which are held separately from those of the Company in independently administered funds. The amount expensed
to the Statement of Comprehensive Income in respect of defined contribution pension schemes are the
contributions payable in the year, being £5m (2023: £5m). Differences between contributions payable in the year
and contributions actually paid are shown as Trade and other payables in the Statement of Financial Position. Total
amounts outstanding in respect of defined contribution pension schemes amount to £5m (2023: Enil).

Defined benefit scheme

The Company’s retirement benefit obligations relate to the TUI UK Scheme (“Scheme”), a segregated section of
TUI GROUP UK Pension Trust (“Trust”). The other sections within the Trust are the BAL Scheme and the TAPS
Scheme, both operated by TUI Airways Limited primarily for the pilot workforce.

The scheme closed to future accrual on 31 October 2018.

67

Docusign Envelope ID: C68EF8BC-B4CA-4C33-84EF-DD81E5560C5C

TUI UK Limited
Notes to the financial statements for the financial year ended 30 September 2024

24. Retirement benefit obligations (continued)

Defined benefit scheme (continued) .
The Company is one of several Group employers participating in the Scheme and recognises its contractually
agreed share of this scheme’s assets and liabilities.

Retirement benefit costs are assessed in accordance with the advice of an independent, professionally qualified
actuary on the basis of triennial valuations using the projected unit credit method. The assets of the scheme are
held through independent, trustee—administered funds separate from the assets of the Group. The most recent
triennial valuation is as at 30 September 2022.

In accordance with the advice of an independent professionally qualified actuary, the defined benefit obligation
has been remeasured and the scheme assets have been recognised at fair value at the Statement of Financial
Position date.

The increase in the present value of the liabilities of the defined benefit pension scheme arising from curtailments
and settlements (if any) are expensed to profit or loss. The full cost of providing amendments to benefits in respect
of past service (if any) is expensed or credited to profit or loss in the year. The interest expense on the net deficit
is included in Finance expenses. Gains and losses associated with remeasurement of the defined benefit obligation
and changes in fair value of the scheme’s assets are recognised in Other Comprehensive Income.

The surpius or deficit on the scheme is recognised as a non-current asset or liability on the Statement of Financial
Position under the description ‘Retirement benefits’, gross of related deferred tax, which is recognised separately.

Funding

Under the terms of the funding agreement reached alongside the September 2022 valuation, the Company’s
immediate parent undertaking has'‘set up a subsidiary, TUI Pensions Restricted SPV Limited, which in turn has
established an ESCROW bank deposit of £45m to provide funding security to the Scheme. The deficit funding
contribution agreement in respect of the Scheme is for £81m to be payable in 2025 and £61m in 2026 across all
employers. The Company’ share of deficit funding contributions is projected to be £24m for 2025 and £18m for
2026. In the event that scheme funding reaches a predetermined level, the deficit funding contributions will be
paid into the newly created ESCROW funding account if the balance is below an agreed account limit. Should the
ESCROW fund reach its agreed limit, then further deficit funding would cease unless and until the ESCROW fund
balance falls below its agreed limit.

Role of the Trustees

The Trust’s Trustees are responsible for all three schemes and comprise representatives appointed by the
members and the Company, which is the principal employer. The Trustees are required by law to act in the interest
of all relevant beneficiaries and are responsible in particular for the asset investment policy plus the day-to-day
administration of the benefits. They are also responsible for jointly agreeing with the employer the level of
contributions and funding requirements.

Risks
The Scheme is exposed to a number of financial risks (asset risk, interest rate risk, inflation risk and foreign
exchange risk and demographic risk (mortality risk).

Asset risk

20% (2023: 28%) of the Schemes’ assets are invested in equity, property and alternatives which are expected to
outperform corporate bonds in the long term but are likely to increase the volatility of the Statement of Financial
Position and risk of deficit in the short-term. Investing in these asset classes also creates concentration and liquidity
risk. Concentration risk is the risk that the performance of a single investment might negatively impact on the
Trustees’ ability to meet their objectives. Liquidity risk is the risk of a shortfall in cash relative to the short-term
liabilities.

Interest rate risk

The scheme is subject to interest rate risk, where a decrease in corporate bond yields would increase the value
placed on the defined benefit obligation for accounting purposes, resulting in an increased deficit. However, this
is mitigated by investing in Liability Driven Investments (“LDIs”}, which are designed to offset the impact of
movement in interest and inflation rates.

68

Docusign Envelope ID: C68EF8BC-B4CA-4C33-84EF-DD81E5560C5C

TUI UK Limited
Notes to the financial statements for the financial year ended 30 September 2024

24. Retirement benefit obligations (continued)
Risks (continued)

Inflation rate risk
A proportion of the defined benefit obligation is indexed in line with price inflation, subject to defined caps and
collars. Inflation risk is considered less significant due to the use of these caps and collars. Further, the remaining
inflation risk is mitigated by investing in LDIs, which are designed to offset the impact of movement in interest and
inflation rates.

Foreign exchange risk
The Company faces foreign exchange risk from Scheme assets that are denominated in a currency other than
Sterling.

Mortality risk
The majority of the Scheme’s obligations are to provide benefits for the life of the member, so increases in life
expectancy will result in an increase in the liability.

Duration
The weighted average duration of the Scheme’s defined benefit obligation is 15 (2023: 15) years.

Composition of defined benefit obligations
The Scheme’s defined benefit obligation by class of member was as follows:

As at As at

30 September 30 September

2024 2023

% %

Deferred members not yet claiming pensions 64 60
Pensioner members 36 40
100 100

Assumptions .
The liabilities for the Scheme have been calculated using the following principal financial and demographic
assumptions, which reference the best estimate of market conditions at the valuation date.

Financial assumptions
As at As at
30 September 30 September
2024 2023
% %
Discount rate 5.0 5.5
Inflation assumption (Retail Price Index, RPI) 3.1 3.3

Demographic assumptions

The mortality assumptions for the Scheme explicitly allow for improvements in life expectancy over time, so that
life expectancy at retirement will depend on the year in which a member attains retirement age (age 65). The table
below shows the life expectancy for members attaining age 65 on the Statement of Financial Position date, and 20
years after the Statement of Financial Position date:

69

Docusign Envelope ID: C68EF8BC-B4CA-4C33-84EF-DD81E5560C5C

TUI UK Limited
Notes to the financial statements for the financial year ended 30 September 2024

24. Retirement benefit obligations (continued)

Demographic assumptions (continued)

As at As at
30 September 30 September
Life expectancy, 2024 2023
’ Years Years
Males
Life expectancy in years for a pensioner retiring aged 65, on the Statement
of Financial Position date 21.3 21.2
Life expectancy in years for a pensioner retiring aged 65, 20 years after the
Statement of Financial Position date 22.2 22.1
Females
Life expectancy in years for a pensioner retiring aged 65, on the Statement
of Financial Position date 23.6 23.5
Life expectancy in years for a pensioner retiring aged 65, 20 years after the
Statement of Financial Position date 24.7 24.6
Sensitivity analysis

The sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to reasonably possible changes to the key financial and
demographic assumptions for the Scheme is illustrated below:

As at
30 September
2024
£m
Financial assumptions
Inflation
Increase in obligation due to increasing inflation by 0.5% 4
Decrease in obligation due to decreasing inflation by 0.5% (5)
Discount rate
Increase in obligation due to decreasing discount rate by 0.5% 17
Decrease in obligation due to increasing discount rate by 0.5% (16)
Demographic assumptions
Mortality rate
Increase in obligation due to increasing all life expectancies by 1 year 6

The sensitivity analysis above has been determined based on reasonably possible changes of the respective
assumptions occurring at the end of the financial year and may not be representative of the actual change. It is
based on the key assumptions while holding all other assumptions constant. In practice, this is unlikely to occur
and changes in some of the assumptions may be correlated.

Key accounting results

Amounts recognised within the Statement of Comprehensive Income

As at As at

30 September 30 September

2024 2023

£m £m

Net retirement benefit interest expense/(income) (Notes 9 & 10) 1 (1)
1 ()

70

Docusign Envelope ID: C68EF8BC-B4CA-4C33-84EF-DD81E5560C5C

TUI UK Limited
Notes to the financial statements for the financial year ended 30 September 2024

24. Retirement benefit obligations (continued)

Net defined benefit obligation

The Company’s total net defined benefit liability recognised within the Statement of Financial Position is as follows:

As at As at

30 September 30 September

2024 2023

£m £m

Present value of defined benefit obligations (148) (133)
Fair value of plan assets 142 106
Net liability recognised in the Statement of Financial Position (6) (27)

Areconciliation of the Company’s net defined benefit liability, analysed between the defined benéfit obligation

and plan assets is as follows:
Present value

of defined
benefit Fair value of Net defined
obligation plan assets benefit liability
£m . £m £m
At 1 October 2022 (133) 134
Finance (expense)/income (10) i1
(Charge)/Credit to the Statement of Comprehensive
Income (10) 11 1
Re-measurement of the net defined benefit liability:
Return on plan assets, excluding amounts in interest
expense - (54) (54)
Actuarial gains arising from changes in demographic ~
assumptions 12 - 12
Actuarial gains arising from changes in financial
assumptions 12 - 12
Actuarial losses arising from changes in experience .
adjustments (22) - (22)
Credit/(Charge) to Other Comprehensive Income 2 (54) {52)
Employer contributions - 23 23
Benefit payments 8 (8) :
At 30 September 2023 (133) 106 (27)

71

Docusign Envelope ID: C68EF8BC-B4CA-4C33-84EF-DD81E5560C5C

TUI UK Limited

Notes to the financial statements for the financial year ended 30 September 2024

24. Retirement benefit obligations (continued)

Net defined benefit obligation (continued)
Present value

of defined Net defined
benefit Fair value of . benefit
obligation planassets _asset/(liability)
£m £m £m
At 1 October 2023 (133) 106 (27)
Finance (expense)/income (11) 10 (1)
(Charge)/Credit to the Statement of Comprehensive
Income : (11) 10 (1)
Re-measurement of the net defined benefit liability:
Return on plan assets, excluding amounts in interest
expense - 10 10
Actuarial losses arising from changes in financial
assumptions (13) - (13)
(Charge)/credit to Other Comprehensive Income (13) 10 (3)
Employer contributions - 25 25
Benefit payments 9 (9) -
At 30 September 2024 (148) 142 {6)
Assets
The fair value of plan assets at the end of the financial year-end was as follows:
Asat As at
30 September 2024 30 September 2023
Quoted Unquoted Total Quoted Unquoted Total
fm £m £m £m £m £m
Securitised Debt : 19 - 19 3 - 3
Corporate bonds 10 8 18 9 10 19
Property 22 - 22 20 - 20
Property debt - 6 | 6 - 10 10
Liability driven investment 54 - 54 48 - 48
Cash & cash equivalents : 23 23 - 6 6
Total fair value of Scheme assets 105 37 142 80 26 106

The Scheme’s assets do not include any financial instruments issued by the Company, nor any property occupied
by, or other assets used by the Company. Investments in passive index tracker funds may hold a proportionate

investment in TUI AG.

72

Docusign Envelope ID: C68EF8BC-B4CA-4C33-84EF-DD81E5560C5C

25.

26.

27.

TUI UK Limited
Notes to the financial statements for the financial year ended 30 September 2024

Share capital

As at As at
30 September 30 September
2024 2023
£m £m
Authorised

850,756,820 (2023: 850,756,820) Ordinary shares of £1.00 each 851 851

Issued and fully paid
850,756,820 (2023: 850,756,820) Ordinary shares of £1.00 each 851 851

851 851

Reserves .
The following describes the nature and purpose of each reserve within equity:

Reserve Description and purpose

Retained losses All other net gains and losses and transactions with owners (e.g. dividends) not
recognised elsewhere.

Hedging reserve The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives forming cash

flow hedges is recognised in equity. Amounts taken to equity are reclassified to
the Statement of Comprehensive Income and included as income or expenses
in the period in which the hedged item has an effect on results.

Cost of hedging reserve Cumulative changes in the fair value of the portions of a derivative financial
instrument entered into on or after 1 April 2024 and not designated as a
hedging instrument are recognised in equity in the cost of hedging reserve.
Cumulative gains or losses recognised in equity are generally reciassified to the
income statement and recognised as income or expense in the period in which
the underlying transaction affects profit or loss.

Capitalised development costs are not treated as realised losses as the Directors believe the special circumstances
in Section 844(3) of the Companies Act 2006 apply, and they provide future benefits to the Company and should
not be considered losses. ,

Related party transactions
During the year, the Company entered into the following trading transactions with related parties:

Related party Revenue Expenses
Financial year Financial year Financial year Financial year
ended ended ended ended
30 September 30 September 30 September 30 September
2024 2023 2024 2023
fm £m fm £m
Joint ventures of the Group - - 129 125
Associates of the Group - - 77 82

Subsidiaries not wholly owned by

the Group - - 62 57

Total - - 268 264

The Company has taken advantage of the exemption contained in FRS 101 as set out in Note 5.

73

Docusign Envelope ID: C68EF8BC-B4CA-4C33-84EF-DD81E5560C5C

27.

28.

29.

TUI UK Limited
Notes to the financial statements for the financial year ended 30 September 2024

Related party transactions (continued)

The following amounts were outstanding at the Statement of Financial Position date:

Related party . Receivables outstanding Payables outstanding
As at As at Asat As at
30September 30 September 30 September 30 September
2024 2023 2024 2023
£m £m im £m
Joint ventures of the Group 2 2 25 31
Associates of the Group - - 13 14

Subsidiaries not wholly owned by

the Group 5 6 9 8
Total 7 8 47 53

At 30 September 2024, included within the £7m (2023: £8m) receivable balance is £5m (2023: £7m) of non-current
hotel prepayments. ‘

Financial and other commitments
The Company, jointly and severally, along with 18 other fellow group undertakings (Sept-23: 17 group
undertakings), has provided guarantees to the lenders of the following borrowing facilities of TUI AG:
e External bank revolving credit facilities (“RCF”) of €1.9bn (2023: €2.7bn) which include letters of credit
tranches amounting to €190m (2023: €190m) on an aggregate basis;
« Schuldschein loan agreements with maturities in 2025 and 2028;
e  Sustainability-linked senior notes totaling €500m with a tenure of five years that were placed in March
2024. The notes have an annual coupon of 5.875% and were issued at 98.93% of the nominal amount.

At 30 September 2024, the amount outstanding in relation to the facilities above were as follows:
@ =€242m (2023: €242m) drawn from the Schuldschein;
@ €136m (2023: €109m)} drawn from the letter of credit tranches of the RCF; and
e §=€500m (2023: €nil) relating to the sustainability-linked senior notes.

No premium has been received by the Company for issuing these guarantees. These guarantees are accounted for
as financial guarantee contracts under IFRS 9. The resulting jiability arising from these contracts is calculated based
on the higher of the amortised fair value of the guarantees and the expected credit losses at the balance sheet
date, with this liability then allocated out between all the guaranteeing subsidiaries in proportion to their net
assets.

As the Company had net liabilities at the reporting date, the allocation method resulted in no liability (2023: no
liability) being recognised in the Statement of Financial Position of the Company.

Post balance sheet events
Subsequent to the year-end the following post balance sheet event had occurred, which impacted the Company:

e = =On21 March 2025, the Company, jointly and severally, along with several other fellow group undertakings
entered into an agreement to provide certain financial guarantees to the lenders of certain borrowings of
TUI AG. This agreement ended the previous agreement under which the Company provided financial
guarantees relating to borrowings of TUI AG which have since been refinanced.

74

Docusign Envelope ID: C68EF8BC-B4CA-4C33-84EF-DD81E5560C5C

TUI UK Limited
Notes to the financial statements for the financial year ended 30 September 2024

30. Ultimate parent company and controlling party
The Company is controlled by TUI AG — a company registered in Berlin and Hanover (Federal Republic of Germany)
which is the ultimate parent company and controlling party. The immediate parent company is TUI Travel Holdings
Limited, a company registered in the United Kingdom.

The smallest and largest group in which the results of the Company are consolidated is that headed by TU! AG.
Copies of the TUI AG financial statements are available from its registered address via Investor Relations, TUI AG,

Karl-Wiechert-Allee 23, 30625 Hanover, Germany, or from the website www.tuigroup.com/en-en.

No other financial statements include the results of the Company.

75

