UK Sailing Academy aA
Reports and Accounts UKSA
2023/24 Sea.Change

Charity Number 299248

For the Financial Year
ending 31 January 2024

nN

taroar2024
COMPANIES HOUSE

WEDNESDAY

REFERENCE AND ADMINISTRATIVE DETAILS

Patron
HRH the Princess Royal

Founders
Noel and Sylvia Lister

Trustees

Richard Stokes CBE Chair of the Board

Sir Anthony Greener (resigned 22 September 2023)
Claire Locke 7.

David Lister, MBE Founder Trustee

Debra Price Vice Chair

Marc Giraudon Chair of Finance committee
Ole Bettum (resigned 15 November 2023)
Samantha Axtell

Claire Sunderland-Hay Chair of Ops Risk committee
(appointed 24 March 2023)
(appointed 24 March 2023)
(appointed 24 March 2023,
resigned 25 April 2024)

(appointed 24 March 2023)

Shonagh Primrose
John Michael Wemms

Catherine Longhurst

Key Management Personnel
Ben Willows Chief Executive
Tim Goulding Interim Director of Finance & Risk
(appointed January 2024)
Mark Smith Director of Finance &
Risk (resigned January 2024)
Sophie Dear Director of Sales & Marketing

(appointed December 2023)
Director of Marketing & Business
Development (until December
2023)

Director of Training & Operations
Director of Fundraising &
Development

Julia Hutchinson

Chris Frisby
Amy Sweeting

Auditors

Crowe UK LLP

Aquis House

49-51 Blagrave Street
Reading

Berkshire RG1 1PL

UKSA~

Sea.Change

Bankers

NatWest plc

107 St James’ Square
Isle of Wight

PO30 1XH

Solicitors

Bates, Wells & Braithwaite London
2-6 Cannon Street

London

EC4M 6YH

Registered Office
Arctic Road
Cowes

Isle of Wight
PO31 7PQ

Registered Company Number
02251024 (England and Wales)

Registered Charity Number
299248

Accreditations \ Licences

British Accreditation Council (for independent further and
higher education)

UK Independent College accreditation

RYA Accreditation

MCA Accreditation

ISO 9001 Registered

Adventure Activities Licensing Service

Visit England

Contact details

Telephone 01983 294941

Email info@uksa.org
Website www.uksa.org

Contents
Report from the Chief Executive and Chair of Trustees ...........0.0..0.0 ccc etree 4
Report of the Trustees:
Aims, Objectives and Values .......... 00... ccceceeeeneee cere cece sees eu en eee tseeeeteeeceneeeeneeeeenaneeeeies 7
Strategic Report:
Public Benefit ...0.0.. eee cece eee neers anne trader terete eer ineee tine retirerersenee red 8
Financial REVICW «0.0.0... ccc cece cece cence eects eee e eter eee tet eeteeeeedeeeeaannsee enters tonnes nanees 11
Future Development .............0...ccc ccc eeee nec e tenet eee e eect cece tenet e a eee yeeteneta nese eeeaneee nee ees 13
Risk REVIGW 00.0... cee cece ccece cence cee eee ene be tenet eee ee ted nb cette sien eeeteeeeeaai nese eee eeeeeaeeeeenees 15
Fundraising REVIOW «200... 0... eee ce ccc ecneceteeee cence e te eee ete e tesa uaeaeeeeeseeereueeeseeeeseeeeneeeenes 16
Structure, Governance and Management ...........00. 00. ..0cc cece cece cence cece cere eee beenee ena e een etees 17
Statement of Trustees’ Responsibilities ........ 00.0.2. e cence cence nee e teen e ee ee eee ta eee 18
Independent Auditor's Report ......0.0.. occ cece cece rere reece treet tenet re etre eeeeee einen inert ee 19
Consolidated Statement of Financial Activities 00000000... ncn e eee e cece tenet e nner eeeens 22
Balance Sheets .....000.... 0c cece rere nnn Ebene ener e eerie 23
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement ........... 000. e eee rire eee ee tees e ease ee ee eeeee eee 25

Notes to the Financial Statements

Page | 3. UKSAILING ACADEMY (UKSA) ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2023/24

UKSATS
‘Sea-Change

Gharty Number 299248

™.
UKSA” “™S ,
Sea.Change

Charity Number 299248:

REPORT FROM THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE AND CHAIR OF TRUSTEES

OUR VISION: To be a world-leading provider of water-based adventures for young people and training for careers in
maritime.

UKSA is the only training provider to offer comprehensive pathways from a child's initial experience of the sea, through
education and training, to professional careers in maritime. Our outdoor learning and education programmes inspire.
and engage children and young people, enabling them to build confidence, develop vital life skills, broaden their
horizons, and signpost them to the wide range of career opportunities the maritime industry offers.

UKSA's ambition is to provide more life-changing opportunities to the children and young people who need them most,
empowering them to build positive futures and access pathways into maritime employment.

WHO WE ARE:

Founded in 1987, UKSA is a compassionate and inclusive organisation that unlocks profound maritime adventures,
education, and career pathways, irrespective of an individual's life journey.

From its unique, four-acre, waterfront campus in Cowes, on the Isle of Wight, UKSA provides water-based adventure
programmes for children and young people together with over 150 industry-leading maritime courses. It offers day and
fully inclusive residential programmes, providing funding to those who would not otherwise be able to access these
programmes.

In 2023/24 UKSA welcomed over 11,000 beneficiaries, including 6,711 school-aged pupils taking part in programmes to
develop their skills and introduce them to the education and training opportunities available in the maritime sector.

UKSA is committed to widening access to maritime training, and enhancing employment opportunities in the sector
and relies on the generosity of its donors, grant-making trusts, companies and industry partners, who help transform
the lives of children and young people by providing funding to help them access UKSA's programmes.

Health and Safety, Safeguarding and the well-being of all UKSA students and staff is at the heart of everything we do.

OUR STRATEGY:

UKSA is passionate about empowering these young people to reach their potential and invest in their future, irrespective
of their background or circumstance. It provides financial, welfare and coaching support to those facing barriers in their
lives, be they economic, social, health or education, including those who are at risk of exclusion from school or of
offending, and those not in education or employment. UKSA aims to extend its reach by engaging more schools and
youth organisations who work with children from diverse and disadvantaged backgrounds, who would not otherwise
have the opportunity to access its programmes.

UKSA will continue to increase the depth of its maritime careers offer by increasing both the scale and range of
education and training it provides and the amount of financial support it offers to deserving young people seeking a
career in maritime. UKSA will continue to work closely with employers and will tailor its training to meet the needs of
the maritime industries.

Page | 4 UKSAILING ACADEMY (UKSA) ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2023/24


UKSA”
‘Sea.Change

Charity Number 299248

REPORT FROM THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE AND CHAIR OF TRUSTEES (continued)

OUR DEVELOPMENT PATHWAY:

7)

Empower

5 Development. \. 4 _ ———™~\ ;
Outdoor learning programmes Maritime training Career progression

Inspire: Educ Train

spas ge Be introducinga
Building lif , .
pail though voung{peoplemms Education and Professional

Holcareetg training for courses and

water based opportunities careers at sea qualifications
Infmaritime] ;
2023/24 HIGHLIGHTS:

© UKSA welcomed a total of 11,114 beneficiaries, from a wide variety of socio-economic backgrounds, across its
programmes.

© —UKSA engaged 32 schools in its Outdoor Learning programmes, a total of over 1,500 children, of which 527
were provided funding from its ‘Leave No Child Behind’ fund.

© —UKSA accepted 481 young people onto its unique, fully funded Sea.change Foundation programme, providing
the opportunity to further develop their life skills, whilst learning about the training and careers opportunities
available in the maritime industry. In 2023/24 UKSA also piloted this programme in Weymouth through its
partnership with Marine Society & Sea Cadets.

@ UKSA saw 100% of its Further Education students go into employment or further training and 30% join its
careers programmes, evidencing the powerful pathways that it offers to young people.

@ UKSA delivered world class career and professional training to 2,300 students in the maritime industry.
@ UKSA.provided an average of 50% funding to 80% of Superyacht Cadet students.

@ —UKSA worked with local businesses to provide apprenticeship schemes for Port Operatives and Workboat Crew
Members.

” OTHER MILESTONES:

2023/24 was the first full year of operation for UKSA's purpose-built, 136-bed Sea.Change accommodation block which
opened in July 2022. This was the culmination of a four-year site development project and fundraising campaign, which
raised £4.3m in donations and significantly improved UKSA’s facilities and residential provision, increasing capacity,
reach and impact.

Following this growth trajectory, UKSA has continued to develop its assets and as a key stakeholder in the levelling up
plan for the Isle of Wight has worked with the Council to develop the East Cowes, Victoria Barracks site as another UKSA
base. Our aim is to have this site operational in 2025, which will offer further employment opportunities for Island
residents, whilst enabling us to support even more young people. We are gratefu! to our supporters for pledging their
early funding support towards this transformational project.

Page | 5 UK SAILING ACADEMY (UKSA) ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2023/24


¢

™.
UKSA” ™
‘Sea.Change

Gharity NumBer 299248

REPORT FROM THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE AND CHAIR OF TRUSTEES (continued)

OPERATIONAL CHALLENGES AND ACHIEVEMENTS:

In 2023/24 there were the challenges of high inflation, a cost-of-living crisis, and an uncertain global economic
environment.

Despite these challenges, UKSA was able to increase the number of beneficiaries welcomed through its doors and has
delivered a strong financial performance. Since 2020, the charity has delivered a strong growth trajectory, both in terms
of income and fundraising:

© Overall income increase: 23%
e Fundraising income increase: 107%

Having survived these significant challenges, during the year we grew income whilst simultaneously managing our
Operational costs to deliver a surplus of £0.4m. We also invested £0.9m in our buildings, fleet, and equipment to
maintain and develop our asset base making sure it is fit for purpose for many years and generations to come.

Ben Willows, Chief Executive Richard Stokes CBE, Chair of Trustees

14 June 2024

Page | 6 UK SAILING ACADEMY (UKSA) ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2023/24


UKSA”
Sea Change.
Gaarity Number 299348"
REPORT OF THE TRUSTEES
AIMS, OBJECTIVES AND VALUES

The Trustees, who are also Directors of the charity for the purposes of the Companies Act 2006, present their report
with the financial statements of UK Sailing Academy (hereinafter ‘UKSA’) for the year ended 31 January 2024. The
Trustees have adopted the provisions of the Statement of Recommended Practice (SORP), applicable to charities
(effective 1 January 2019), and have had regard to the general guidance provided by the Charity Commission on public
benefit in ensuring that its aims and objectives comply with section 17(5) of the Charities Act 2011 and are for the
public benefit.

AIMS AND OBJECTIVES:

UKSA is a youth training charity, which aims to inspire and support children and young people to broaden their
horizons through its life enhancing water-based adventures, education and training for careers at sea. :

Our objectives, as defined by our Articles of Association, are:

1. To advance the education and physical, mental and spiritual development of children (or young persons
under the age of 25) by providing or assisting in providing facilities for training in sailing and seamanship for
those who have need of such facilities by reason of poverty or social or economic circumstances (so that they
may grow to full maturity as individuals and members of society).

2. To provide or assist in the provision of facilities for the recreation and other leisure time occupation of the
general public, and in particular, facilities for watersports and outdoor activities in the interests of social
welfare and with the object of improving their conditions of life.

3. To advance the education of the public in all aspect of maritime activities and in particular, in matters
relating to: (a) the promotion of personal safety, (b) the prevention of accident, (c) navigation, (d) engineering,
(e) seamanship, (f) stability and construction of boats, (g) communication at sea, (h) maritime law, and (i)
business and interpersonal skills.

4. To promote community participation in healthy recreation through the provision of sailing facilities.

Every 3-5 years, UKSA develops a strategy to deliver these objectives considering the current needs of its primary
beneficiaries and UKSA’s operating capacity. This is outlined and reported on in more detail in the Strategic Report
included later.

VALUES:

Our values reflect the type of charity that we want to be - one that loves what we do, has a passion for sharing it and
wants to inspire as many people as possible through our work. They apply to all our employees, trustees, beneficiaries,
supporters and volunteers:

e Challenge, have fun and smile.

e We take care of ourselves, those around us and this place.
e Be part of who we are and help others do the same.

e Tell the truth, hear the truth, act truthfully.

e = If not you, who? If not now, when?

Page | 7 UK SAILING ACADEMY (UKSA) ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2023/24


UKSA” ™:
Sea.Change
arty Number 209248
REPORT OF THE TRUSTEES
STRATEGIC REPORT — PUBLIC BENEFIT

UKSA RESPONDING TO THE NEEDS OF YOUNG PEOPLE:

There is considerable evidence that, post-Covid, young people need assistance more than ever. Across the UK, poverty
and the attainment gap are increasing and due to increases in the cost-of-living, we are seeing more demand for
financial support than ever before.

UKSA knows that outdoor education, structured training, and support into employment are vita! to ensure children
and young people can lead fulfilled lives. However, we also know that many children and young people are missing
out on life-changing opportunities because schools, local authorities and parents simply cannot afford to pay for them.

UKSA IN THE LOCAL COMMUNITY:

UKSA has a significant economic footprint in the Isle of Wight local community employing approximately 135 permanent
staff with an additional 100 freelance or casual staff during the summer season. We are proud to acknowledge that we exist
in an Island community where everyone matters, and we recognise our people are key to our success and their health and
wellbeing is central to our people strategy.

UKSA's dedication to Islanders and, in particular, to ensuring its young people have priority access where possible to some
of the best opportunities to shape their education and careers, is unwavering.

OUR IMPACT:

UKSA is an impact led organisation, measuring the outcomes on young people across all programmes. These focus on
enhanced Skills 4 Life alongside ensuring our young people obtain viable employment opportunities to provide a career for
life. UKSA has partnered with Cambridge University to measure and validate these outcomes: Key Impact outcomes in
2023/24 include:

SUPPORTING CHILDREN FROM THE UK AND THE IOW IN A TIME OF ECONOMIC CHALLENGES:

1. Set idential tri . Child Behind
In 2023/24, UKSA welcomed 5,673 children and their leaders on a residential trip. Thanks to our donors, we were able to
provide £150,0000 of funding support to 32 schools. This equated to 527 children facing financial hardship within the
criteria of Free School Meals, Pupil Premium, Education, Health and Care Plans, who were able to join their peers on an
enriching experience instead of being left behind in the classroom. This financial support for schools from the most
deprived areas also included travel costs and the provision of essential items, including swimwear for those in need.

UKSA reached out to new schools and youth groups from disadvantaged backgrounds as well as welcoming returning
schools. Through this outreach, the charity saw a 55% increase in the number of beneficiaries able to access support from
some of the most deprived postcodes in the UK compared with the previous year.

UKSA programmes provide a new learning environment outside of the classroom and are designed to build confidence
and encourage teamwork. The results reported from 2023/24 UKSA Skills 4 Life measurements highlight substantial
increases across all development elements.

Blelelololo

Communication Decision Making Participation _Self-belief_ Determination _ Resilience

These findings demonstrate UKSA programmes improve self-confidence, personal growth, and children’s ability to
recognise their capabilities and improve behaviours back in the classroom.

Page | 8 UK SAILING ACADEMY (UKSA) ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2023/24


>
UKSA” ™
Sea.Change
Charity Number 299243
REPORT OF THE TRUSTEES
STRATEGIC REPORT — PUBLIC BENEFIT (continued)

(am(Grvaaig to express how important this trip has been on these
young-people. For some of them to have had the bravery to try new
things, which they were only able to do thanks to the encouragement
of the UKSA instructors.
- Abi Johnson, Cirencester Deer Park School

(ie fring has been incredible and has enabled our young people
that might not have had the opportunity to come away on a trip like
this to realise their dream and to take part in an amazing experiéfice
at UKSA.
- Assistant Principal, Mary Rose Academy

2. Sea, Change Programme

Last year, UKSA funded 481 beneficiaries to take part in its Sea.Change Foundation programme, an increase of 64% on
the previous year. Since 2021, UKSA's pathway progression from Sea.Change into Further Education has increased by
over 80%. This increase is a promising indicator that the charity is achieving its intended goals of fostering development
within the maritime industry for young people from disadvantaged backgrounds.

UKSA continues to remove financial barriers whilst bridging the gap between education and employment, addressing
two key issues; helping young people from low-income backgrounds to access career opportunities into a maritime
career and offering a solution to the shortage of skilled seafarers in maritime operations.

2023/24 impact figures for our Sea.Change Programme:

Beg62% AA26% &.55% 583%

iari increase in fundin of students
of beneficiaries were registered for children from” have a greater

were from inner- ; ti . understanding of
city communities Special Educa ton ne eorocnde the maritime industry

Fre 'UKSA Sea Change course was an unforgettable journey for
me; but what stood out the most was the opportunity to connect
with individuals from all corners of the globe. The diverse
perspectives and personal stories shared made for a truly
enriching experience. Had it not been for UKSA and the
Sea.Change Foundation, many of us in the group would never
know about the opportunities and futures that lie ahead in the
maritime industry. We have all made new friends and coming to
UKSA has been the highlight of our summer. y)

- Muhammad, Sea.Change Beneficiary.

3. Test the Water

Launched in 2014, the ‘Test the Water’ programme gives all Year 6 Isle of Wight children the opportunity to come to
UKSA to try sailing and watersports through a free half-day session with their school. Many children living on the
Island have never had the opportunity to go into the sea before, despite growing up so close to it. 34% of children on
the Isle of Wight live in poverty, 22% Island children in primary school are in receipt of free school meals. UKSA funds
students to participate in its Test the Water programme so that every child can benefit regardless of their financial
situation. Last year UKSA welcomed 1,213 island students from 38 Schools to take part in this programme.

The programme takes Island students out of the classroom and for many children, this new experience gives them a
unique opportunity to thrive and positively impacts them when back in school, boosting their confidence and
encouraging them to try new things. From this introduction, UKSA offers follow-on programmes to give further
opportunities to those wishing to seek more adventures and the possibility of a maritime career. To date over 10,000
young people on the Isle of Wight have benefited from this programme.

Page | 9 UKSAILING ACADEMY (UKSA) ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2023/24


:
UKSA” ™
Sea.Change
Charity Number 299248,
REPORT OF THE TRUSTEES
STRATEGIC REPORT — PUBLIC BENEFIT (continued)

Ger really get everyone along and get the children sailing
without it being a big thing, they don't even realise that they are
doing it. It's a real sense of fulfilment and overcoming what they
are scared of, it's really empowering. 5)
Ollie Whiting, Teacher Newport C of E Primary school

FE Grsren love it, it's great fun and so important for inl]

feel safe around the water. It's Fantastic!
Heather, Island Primary School Teacher

Maritime Depth: In response to the challenges facing young people, UKSA is proud of its careers and professional
maritime training courses delivering high exam pass rates and supporting young people into maritime employment.
UKSA is an outcome led organisation, and we ensure that we that measure our impact throughout our programmes.
UKSA is working with academics at the University of Cambridge to develop a theory of change, which considers young
people's development, learning and examines the relationship between personal factors, such as the environment
and behaviour.

UKSA programmes provide a new environment outside of the classroom and are designed to build confidence and
encourage teamwork using the sea as a catalyst for positive change.

G (Ging at UKSA | have found who | really am — | am mvs tation Student

4 4G In terms of careers available to young people, it's about raising awareness. They weren't even aware of the size of
‘the maritime industry and how many different jobs there are. | know of one young person who is now considering
working in the maritime sector and has decided that's what he wants to do as a career
moving forward.
Director of Programmes, The Royal National Children's Springboard Foundation

e Further Education: 100% of students successfully completed their courses in 2023/24 and either progressed their
training or entered employment. As part of its partnership with the IOW College UKSA received a highly rated
score by Ofsted.

© = Careers: In 2023/24 UKSA achieved an overall pass rate of 97% across its careers programmes and 98% (of those
who reported back to us) entered a job in the maritime sector

¢ MCA Exam pass rates: In 2023/24 UKSA achieved an average pass rate of 74% across key MCA

e — modules which is higher than the industry average.

e Welfare: UKSA has extensive experience of working with many young people who struggle with traditional learning
in the classroom, with 33% of its Further Education students being classed as SEN. In the last quarter, UKSA’s
Welfare team supported 196 students and worked with many local schools and authorities to support its local
young people with Alternative Provision.

Page | 10 UK SAILING ACADEMY (UKSA}) ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2023/24


UKSA ™
Sea.Change.
‘Charity Number 299248
REPORT OF THE TRUSTEES
STRATEGIC REPORT - FINANCIAL REVIEW

FINANCIAL RESULTS FOR THE YEAR:

Economically, 2023/24 was a challenging year. There was high inflation, a cost of-living crisis that impacted the
finances of UKSA's beneficiaries, and global conflicts that disrupted supply chains. Despite this UKSA continued to
deliver a solid financial return whilst also meeting the needs of its 11,114 beneficiaries. This achievement is a
testament to the dedication of our team and the focus on financial discipline and cost control. Financial resilience
and strategic resource allocation is central to our decision-making processes in order to ensure the long-term success
of the charity. We continue the journey of growing income and developing our asset base while carefully controlling
expenditure.

Operating Performance: UKSA continued to deliver solid progression in its operating performance in 2024:

Operating Surplus / (Deficit)

400
ra L cova [~~
woe ee
(200) 2016/17 2018/19 2019/2 2020/21 20 2022/23 2023/24
(400)
(600)
(800)

REPORT OF THE TRUSTEES

STRATEGIC REPORT - FINANCIAL REVIEW (continued)

The table below illustrates how we calculate our operating performance:

2016/17 2017/18 §=2018/19 2019/20 2020/21 2021/22 2022/23 2023/24
£000's = £000's_ = £000's_ = 2000's §=— 2000's = £000's_ = 2000's ~=— £000's
CovID

Total Surplus per SOFA 117 27 104 294 1,670 850 461 426

Less: Donated capital (375) (105) (101),—Ss«(138)S« 374) ~~ (983) (234) (116)

income

Less: Income from

investments o MM @ @ M eB @) (50)
Add: Interest Payable - - - - 41 39 39 34
Operating Surplus /

(Deficit) (259) (79) 1 153 (664) (114) 246 294

Non-operating items such as donated capital income and investment and debt interest have been removed.

GOING CONCERN BASIS:

UKSA's Trustees, supported by the Executive Team, have considered the reserves and net asset position and are satisfied
that these financial statements should be prepared on an ongoing concern basis. This is supported by our auditors.

RESERVES:

The balances and movements in funds along with the amounts held at the year-end are detailed in note 22 to the
Financial Statements. Transfers between reserves represent the application of restricted and designated funds to
capital projects, funded programmes and bursaries.

Page | 11 UK SAILING ACADEMY (UKSA) ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2023/24


UKSA” ™.
Sea.Change
die Number 209248
REPORT OF THE TRUSTEES
STRATEGIC REPORT - FINANCIAL REVIEW (continued)

Unrestricted Reserves: The designated fixed asset reserve fund is presented net of the balance of the secured bank
loan that was arranged in 2020 and secured against the Charity's fixed assets. The unrestricted general fund balance
(“free reserves”) is £296k as at 31 January 2024.

Restricted Reserves: Restricted funds are held to support revenue expenditure and can only be used in accordance
with donors’ directions, further details of the funds and their intended use are to be found in Note 22 to these
accounts.

Reserves Policy: The Trustees have set the guide amount of general unrestricted (free) reserves at £275k for the charity
based on their 2022/23 studies of worst case (loss of income) scenarios.

INVESTMENT POLICY:

The Trustees assessed the working capital requirements of the charity, and the liquid funds were deemed to be
sufficient to meet the short-term cash flow requirements of the charity but not ata level to place funds in longer term
investments. Whenever possible, reserve funds are held in short term notice accounts to maximise income from
interest with minimal risk.

Page | 12 UK SAILING ACADEMY (UKSA) ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2023/24


oo!)
UKSA" ™~

Sea,Change
(Charity Number. 209248"
REPORT OF THE TRUSTEES
STRATEGIC REPORT — FUTURE DEVELOPMENTS
HOW WE PLAN FOR THE FUTURE:

In Spring 2024, the Trustees and Executive Team reviewed the charity's strategy in the context of how the needs of
beneficiaries had been affected post the Covid-19 pandemic. Whilst the detailed development of the overall ambition
and core purpose of UKSA by 2030, is to deliver and be recognised for High Quality - Deep Impact programmes, it will
focus on supporting young people, particularly those who have faced barriers through UKSA's unique training and
careers pathways into the maritime sector.

Success in 2030 will be judged against how well we are delivering the following:

> The number of students coming through the Sea.Change programme and their increased
understanding about, and signposting to, careers in maritime.

> The number of students attending UKSA who have faced barriers and who wouldn't otherwise access
its programmes. :

Vv

The number of students following UKSA'S career pathway offer
> The number of students going into (maritime) employment
> The quality of our training offer.

STRATEGY VISION

OUR VISION: To be a world-leading provider of water-based adventures for young people and training for careers in
maritime.

OUR PURPOSE

UKSA inspires and supports children and young people to broaden their horizons through its life-enhancing water-
based adventures, education, and training for careers in maritime.

OUR MISSION

UKSA's strategic mission is to continually develop its services, assets and people to meet the needs of children and
young people. Our aim is to remove both financial and social barriers to enable students from any background to be
able to access UKSA programmes by providing funding for those who need it. We want our beneficiaries to achieve
their best and gain life-changing experiences, qualifications and progress along a pathway into a maritime career.

UKSA‘s evidenced-based approach to the long-term benefits of UKSA’s work will enable it to work within a network of
‘like-minded’ partners to create further awareness and opportunities to grow with agility and at scale on the mainland;
whilst developing its Cowes HQ site as a centre for Maritime excellence to support deserving young people.

Page | 13 UK SAILING ACADEMY (UKSA) ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2023/24


UKSA”

Sea Change:
REPORT OF THE TRUSTEES
STRATEGIC REPORT — FUTURE DEVELOPMENTS (continued)
OUR FIVE STRATEGIC PRIORITIES:

1. Broaden the horizons of children accessing UKSA’s programmes. Increasing volumes and funding support for
children and schools from disadvantaged areas.

Goal — Increase volumes of Schools & Group children accessing UKSA’s water-based activities.

Target Beneficiaries - 6 — 16 years. Those in need of confidence and life skills and / or need extra support (for
instance SEN, Pupil Premium etc.)

2. _UKSA recognised as the global centre of excellence for maritime training and career progression.

Goal — Increase volumes of assisted funded careers places and form strategic partnerships with industry
organisations to develop new and existing programmes and secure employment for beneficiaries.

Target Beneficiaries - 16 — 25 years of age:

. Those who would otherwise not be able to access maritime programmes

. Those seeking a career in the maritime industry / seeking an alternative to university

. Those working in the maritime sector

. Those seeking to develop their career in the maritime industry / gaining higher qualifications to enable

job retention and future career progression

UKSA's Sea.Change programme, delivered for 14-17-year-olds in the summer holidays, provides the bridge
between these two strategic priorities — informing on the opportunities for a career in maritime.

3. Working with partners to grow and deliver UKSA introductory sessions. Building awareness of, and engagement
in, UKSA’s pathways and maritime employment.

Goals — Develop partnerships with ‘like-minded’ organisations on the mainland to grow UKSA’s introductory
activities, signposting beneficiaries to the opportunities of careers and skills training in Cowes.

Target Beneficiaries 6 — 16 years. Those in. need of confidence and life skills and/or need extra support (for
instance SEN, Pupil Premium etc.)

4. Maintain adequate free reserves and deliver evidenced-based impact creating a step change in UKSA's
fundraising activity and income.

Goals — Deliver operational surplus in line with long term plans.

- Create sustainable and significant fundraising income to support target beneficiaries: We will diversify income
streams and create lasting relationships with funders, and

- Deliver evidence-based research assessment on UKSA’s impact. Our overall approach is to be led by the needs of
our beneficiaries, focusing on the impact and outcomes on their lives.

Target Beneficiaries — All UKSA beneficiaries and stakeholders.

5. Grow UKSA's capacity on the Isle of Wight, whilst developing and maintaining a world-class staff team and
facilities.
Goals - Deliver a capital investment plan to ensure UKSA remains a world-leading maritime training centre

- Expand our Isle of Wight capacity, focusing on East Cowes, and reducing the risk of watersports operations,
UKSA's resources are fit for purpose and remain a world-leading maritime training and work environment,
Execute a digital-enabled strategy to significantly improve organisational efficiency, and
Become a “Best Companies” employer.

Target Beneficiaries - All UKSA beneficiaries and stakeholders.

Page | 14 UK SAILING ACADEMY (UKSA) ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2023/24

UKSA”
Sea.Change.

Gharity Number 299248:

REPORT OF THE TRUSTEES
STRATEGIC REPORT - RISK REVIEW

RISK MANAGEMENT - TRUSTEES:

UKSA operates a formal risk management process at the top of which is the Operational Risk Sub-Committee (ORSC)
which meets quarterly. ORSC considers all main risk areas, subject to the paragraph below. It is chaired by a Trustee
and comprises two other Trustees as well as members of the Executive Team. The sub-committee also considers any
reported incidents in detail. Summaries of the sub-committee’s discussions are presented to the main Board at its
quarterly meetings.

The risks associated with the new building project were monitored by the Capital Development Sub-Committee insofar
that they related to Health & Safety, compliance with planning and other regulations, unforeseen complications in
the ground, supplier issues and the business risk of delays overrun. The Financial Risk relating to the project has been
a matter for Finance Sub Committee.

A summary of the major risks to the charity is held on a detailed risk register that identifies which scores the
operational, financial, governance, compliance and external risks and evaluates the measures that are in place to
mitigate them.

The risk register is a regularly updated by management and is reviewed by the ORSC. UKSA has a structured approach
to risk, that emphasises the importance of mitigating both the likelihood and the impact of risk. In doing so we adopt
a four-tier approach to mitigating risk. Tier 1 comprises measures that are followed at an operational level by
individuals and teams as part of their day-to-day work. Our internal audit processes are the mainstay of Tier 2 while
at Tier 3, we have the external expertise that supports the risk assurance activities that we do in-house. At Tier 4 are
the external inspections and audits that are required to maintain regulatory compliance.

Financial Risk is a matter for the Trustee led Finance Sub-Committee. The charity's main income is derived from
maritime training. The main financial risk is a significant downturn in business activity leading to an interruption in
sold or fundraised income.

RISK MANAGEMENT - OPERATIONAL:

The predominant operational or reputational risks for the charity are the health and safety of students taking part in
UKSA activities on and off the water and the safeguarding of young people and vulnerable adults. Monthly Health
and Safety meetings are held for both shoreside and water activity risks, both feeding into a monthly Health and Safety
management meeting. Leadership is a key element of safety assurance, and a member of the Executive Team chairs
all such meetings.

Stringent operating procedures are in place to minimise the risk of accidents while undertaking activities at UKSA and
all instructors undergo a mandatory and rigorous induction programme followed up with regular training. Daily
operational meetings are held to assess risk for each day's activities and consider group ability, type of activity and
location. This, together with the high level of monitoring from national governing bodies and statutory authorities
helps to ensure that safety is paramount at UKSA.

UKSA has a Designated Safeguarding Officer within the Executive Team and holds monthly safeguarding meetings with
key staff to review practices and policies. All staff, Trustees and volunteers receive appropriate levels of training in
safeguarding for young people and adults deemed to be at risk. A robust safeguarding policy is in place and external
expertise is sought where necessary.

The charity engages with Centor Risk Management to provide a risk consultancy service with a particular emphasis
on insured risk, and compliance with policy wordings. In addition, working with our IT partner, PC Consultants, we
implemented the measures required to achieve the Cyber Essentials standard that is promoted by the National
Cyber Security Centre. .

UKSA has a robust critical incident response plan, which was developed with the support and input of the ORSC and
our external consultants, Pharos Response, who are specialists in risk and reputation management in the education,
youth, travel and adventure sectors and who also provide the charity with 24/7 incident support.

Page | 15 UK SAILING ACADEMY (UKSA) ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2023/24


™. ,
UKSA"

Sea.Change
REPORT OF THE TRUSTEES
STRATEGIC REPORT — FUNDRAISING REVIEW
FUNDRAISING OVERVIEW:

The charity has secured a number of new funders and greatly benefits from transformational ongoing relationships
with key funders. A focus on multi-year funding, sponsorship and major unrestricted donations means that the charity
can be agile and react to the needs of charity beneficiaries. Progress in this area is illustrated in the graph below:

Donated Support to Beneficiaries

£1,200k
£1,000k
£800k
£600k

£400k
£200k

2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 2020/21 2021/22 2022/23 2023/24

HOW WE FUNDRAISE:

UKSA is a medium sized charity that takes a long term, supporter-led relationship approach to its fundraising activities.
The fundraising team raise funds to support programme delivery, capital projects and unrestricted income to support
the charity in whatever way it needs. UKSA has raised £4.4m for capital projects (Sea.Change building, Training Centre
building, Shower Blocks, Yachts and Dinghies) in the last 7 years. UKSA ensures fundraising remains beneficiary focused
and impact driven, sharing stories with supporters to bring to life their support.

The charity's small fundraising team is led by an experienced Director of Fundraising and Development. The Chief
Executive, wider management team and Trustees also play a significant role in raising funds for the Charity. All
partnerships with third parties are managed in line with the Fundraising Regulator and Charity Commission including
contracting, reporting and managing their fundraising activities. Furthermore, where a third party is used UKSA asks
that the third party adheres to the provisions in the Code of Fundraising Practice where relevant.

The Fundraising Team are supported by a Fundraising Sub-committee, which ensures that all new income generating
activity, whether from charitable activities or from fundraising, is carried out in a way that is consistent with UKSA’s
overall strategic priorities. The Fundraising Team have developed and are implementing a growth strategy, which
looks at the future of the fundraising and marketing landscapes, with the following aims:

. Increasing multiyear commitments of support with a focus on unrestricted income
. Launching and growing the Founders’ Club for major donors

. Growing strategic corporate partnerships, including within the maritime industry

. Creating an impact focussed communications plan

. Growing community fundraising, challenge events and wider event offerings
FUNDRAISING CONTROLS:

UKSA is a member of the Fundraising Regulator and is committed to the highest standards in fundraising. At all times,
we ensure that we are respectful, open, honest and accountable to our supporters and the public. All UKSA's
fundraising activities must comply with the Fundraising Regulator’s Code of Fundraising Practice for the UK and UKSA
adheres to the Code's requirement on handling any breaches of the Code or complaints about UKSA's fundraising
activities. There have been no such breaches or complaints reported in the year to 31 January 2024, or subsequently.

UKSA also has a fundraising policy which works alongside charity safeguarding and volunteering policies which sets
out our approach to protecting our beneficiaries and supporters. Alongside this, the department works closely with
the Trustees to outline their responsibility against the CC20 Funding & Finance Guidance ensuring we continue to
fundraise effectively, efficiently, and legally.

Page | 16 UK SAILING ACADEMY (UKSA) ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2023/24


Te:
‘UKSA”
‘Sea -Change
Charity Number 299248)
REPORT OF THE TRUSTEES
STRUCTURE, GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT

UKSA is incorporated as a company limited by guarantee, as defined by the Companies Act 2006, and is governed in
accordance with its Memorandum and Articles of Association. The charity is directed by a Board of unpaid Trustees
who are also directors for the purposes of the Companies Act 2006. At the end of January 2024, there were eight
Trustees. Other than the Founding Member Trustee, Trustees serve for four years, with the possibility of election for
a second four-year term. Only under exceptional circumstances are further terms considered, to be reviewed
annually thereafter.

UKSA‘s Chair of Trustees has a maximum set term of four years and can serve a maximum of three such terms. There
is an agreed and documented selection process to either re-appoint the existing Chair or select a new Chair, which
takes place every four years. The nominations committee, comprising three to five Trustees, conducts the selection
process.

The Board is self-appointing, elected on the basis of professional qualities, experience, competence and availability.
Trustee training is provided.

The Board meets at least four times a year. Trustees are responsible for the appointment of the Chief Executive, to
whom day-to-day management of the organisation is delegated. Trustees work with the Executive Team to develop
a long-term strategic plan, progress against which is reviewed with them at annual strategy and development
meetings. The Board also reviews and approves the Executive's annual business plan and budget. At quarterly
Governance meetings, the Board addresses governance matters and assesses the. charity's performance with the
Executive Team. Additionally, the Chief Executive holds regular conference calls with the Board on any matters
arising.

The Board has established standing Sub-Committees to provide specific oversight, advice and recommendations.
Sub-Committees are made up of at least two Trustees, as well as Executive Team members and external advisors as
required.

© The Finance Sub-Committee monitors the effectiveness of the charity's financial controls and reporting,
considers key areas of financial risk and compliance, reviews the audit process and has a key role in the
control of financial planning, investments and pensions.

e The Operational Risk Sub-Committee, which monitors all areas of risk to the charity other than financial risk,
reviews incident reports and scrutinises the risk management system.

e The Reward Sub-Committee reviews the remuneration and benefits for the CEO and makes
recommendations to the Board with regard to criteria for pay awards and benchmarking.

e The Fundraising Sub-Committee ensures consistency of focus and approach across all Course Delivery and
Fundraised streams of income.

UKSA has a wholly owned non-charitable subsidiary, UKSA Trading Limited, who activities include recreation and
leisure activities.

Page | 17 UK SAILING ACADEMY (UKSA) ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2023/24

UKSA”™~
Sea.Change

Garity Number 299248.

REPORT OF THE TRUSTEES
STATEMENT OF TRUSTEES’ RESPONSIBILITIES

UKSA's Trustees are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with
applicable law and regulations.

Company law requires the Trustees to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under that law the Trustees
have elected to prepare the financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting
Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law). The financial statements are required by law to
give a true and fair view of the state of the affairs of the Charity and of the surplus or deficit of the Charity for that
period. In preparing these financial statements the Trustees are required to:

e — select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently,
e observe methods and principles in the Charities SORP,
e¢ make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent,

e state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed
and explained in the financial statements, and

© prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to assume that the company

will continue in operation.

The Trustees are also responsible for ensuring that proper accounting records are maintained, that disclose with
reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the charity and enable them to ensure that the financial
statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the charity
and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.

The Trustees are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included in
the charity's website. Legislation in England/Wales governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements
and other information included in Annual Reports may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.

In so far as we are aware:

e there is no relevant audit information of which the charitable company’s auditor is unaware; and

e the Trustees have taken all steps that they ought to have taken to make themselves aware of any relevant audit
information and to establish that the auditor is aware of that information.

AUDITORS

The auditors will be proposed for re-appointment in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 at the Annual General
Meeting of the Board.

In approving the Report of the Trustees, the Trustees are also approving the Strategic Report included here in their
capacity as the company's directors.

ON BEHALF OF THE BOARD:

Richard Stokes CBE, Chair of Trustees
14 June 2024

Page | 18 UK SAILING ACADEMY (UKSA} ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2023/24


UKSA
Sea.Change
Charity Number 299248

UK SAILING ACADEMY (UKSA)

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF UK SAILING ACADEMY

Independent Auditor's Report to the Members of UK Sailing Academy

Opinion ,

We have audited the financial statements of UK Sailing Academy (the “charitable company’) and its subsidiary (the
“group") for the year ended 31 January 2024 which comprise Consolidated Statement of Financial Activities, the Group
and Parent Charitable Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated Statement of Cashflows and notes to the financial
statements, including significant accounting policies. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their
preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including Financial Reporting Standard 102
The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland (United Kingdom Generally Accepted
Accounting Practice).

In our opinion the financial statements:

e give a true and fair view of the state of the group's and the charitable company’s affairs as at 31 January 2024 and
of the group's incoming resources and application of resources, including its income and expenditure for the year
then ended;

e have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and

e have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.

Basis for opinion

We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) (ISAs (UK)) and applicable law. Our
responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor's responsibilities for the audit of the financial
statements section of our report. We are independent of the group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are
relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard, and we have fulfilled
our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. We believe that the audit evidence we have
obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.

Conclusions relating to going concern

In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the trustee's use of the going concern basis of accounting
in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate.

Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified any material uncertainties relating to events or
conditions that, individually or collectively, may cast significant doubt on the charitable company's ability to continue
as a going concern for a period of at least twelve months from when the financial statements are authorised for issue.

Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the trustees with respect to going concern are described in the relevant
sections of this report.

Other information

The trustees are responsible for the other information contained within the annual report. The other information
comprises the information included in the annual report, other than the financial statements and our auditor's report
thereon. Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent
otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.

Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially
inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially
misstated. If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to
determine whether this gives rise to a material misstatement in the financial statements themselves. If, based on the
work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required
to report that fact.

We have nothing to report in this regard.

Page | 19 UK SAILING ACADEMY (UKSA) ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2023/24


TS:
UKSA
Sea.Change
Charity Number 299245"
UK SAILING ACADEMY (UKSA)
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF UK SAILING ACADEMY

Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion based on the work undertaken in the course of our audit

e — the information given in the trustees’ report, which includes the directors’ report and the strategic report prepared
for the purposes of company law, for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is
consistent with the financial statements; and

e — the strategic report and the directors’ report included within the trustees’ report have been prepared in accordance
with applicable legal requirements.

Matters on which we are required to report by exception

In light of the knowledge and understanding of the charitable company and their environment obtained in the course
of the audit, we have not identified material misstatements in the strategic report or the directors’ report included
within the trustees’ report.

We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the Companies Act 2006 requires us
to report to you if, in our opinion:

e the parent company has not kept adequate accounting records; or
e the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
e — certain disclosures of trustees' remuneration specified by law are not made; or

we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.

Responsibilities of trustees

As explained more fully in the trustees’ responsibilities statement set out on page 18, the trustees (who are also the
directors of the charitable company for the purposes of company law) are responsible for the preparation of the financial
statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the trustees
determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement,
whether due to fraud or error.

In preparing the financial statements, the trustees are responsible for assessing the charitable company’s ability to
continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern
basis of accounting unless the trustees either intend to liquidate the charitable company or to cease operations, or
have no realistic alternative but to do so.

Auditor's responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor's report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with
ISAs (UK) will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are
considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic
decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.

Irregularities, including fraud, are instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations. We identified and assessed
the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements from irregularities, whether due to fraud or error, and
discussed these between our audit team. We then designed and performed audit procedures responsive to those risks,
including obtaining audit evidence sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks within which the charitable company and group
operates, focusing on those laws and regulations that have a direct effect on the determination of material amounts
and disclosures in the financial statements. The laws and regulations we considered in this context were the Companies
Act 2006 together with the Charities SORP (FRS102) 2019. We assessed the required compliance with these laws and
regulations as part of our audit procedures on the related financial statement items.

Page | 20 UK SAILING ACADEMY (UKSA) ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2023/24


UK SAILING ACADEMY (UKSA)
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF UK SAILING ACADEMY

In addition, we considered provisions of other laws and regulations that do not have a direct effect on the financial
statements but compliance with which might be fundamental to the charitable company’s and group’s ability to operate
or to avoid a material penalty. We also considered the opportunities and incentives that may exist within the charitable
company and group for fraud. The laws and regulations we considered in this context were Charity Commission
regulations health and safety legislation, General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), Royal Yachting Association (RYA)
regulation and Maritime and Coastguard Agency (MCA)/International Association of Marine Investigators (IAMI)
regulations.

Auditing standards limit the required audit procedures to identify non-compliance with these laws and regulations to
enquiry of the Trustees and other management and inspection of regulatory and legal correspondence, if any.

We identified the greatest risk of material impact on the financial statements from irregularities, including fraud, to be
within the recognition of certain income streams and the override of controls by management. Our audit procedures to
respond to these risks included enquiries of management and the Finance, Risk, Audit and Assurance Committee about
their own identification and assessment of the risks of irregularities, sample testing on the posting of journals and the
certain income streams, reviewing accounting estimates for biases, reviewing regulatory correspondence with the Charity
Commission and reading minutes of meetings of those charged with governance.

Owing to the inherent limitations of an audit, there is an unavoidable risk that we may not have detected some material
misstatements in the financial statements, even though we have properly planned and performed our audit in
accordance with auditing standards. For example, the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations
(irregularities) is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely the inherently
limited procedures required by auditing standards would identify it. In addition, as with any audit, there remained a
higher risk of non-detection of irregularities, as these may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions,
misrepresentations, or the override of internal controls. We are not responsible for preventing non-compliance and
cannot be expected to detect non-compliance with all laws and regulations.

A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is available on the Financial
Reporting Council's website at: www.frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This description forms part of our auditor's
report.

Use of our report

This report is made solely to the charitable company's members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of
the Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the charitable company's
members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor's report and for no other purpose. To the
fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the charitable
company and the charitable company's members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we
have formed.

Janette Joyce

Senior Statutory Auditor
For and on behalf of
Crowe U.K. LLP
Statutory Auditor
Reading

19 June 2024

Page | 21 UK SAILING ACADEMY (UKSA) ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2023/24


UKSA” ™
‘Sea Change

Gharity Number 299248

Consolidated statement of financial activities for the year
ended 31 January 2024

(incorporating income and expenditure account)

Unrestricted Restricted TOTAL TOTAL
Funds Funds - 2023/24 2022/23
£000's £000's £000's £000's
INCOME FROM:
Donations, Legacies and Grants 2 882 238 1,120 957
Charitable Activities . 3 7,101 - 7,101 6,566
Trading Activities ; 4 209 - 209 195
Government Support : 5 - - - 19
Investments 6 50 - 50 20
Total income 8,242 238 8,480 7,757
EXPENDITURE ON:
Raising funds:
Trading Activities 4 126 - 126 124
Expenditure on raising funds 7 234 - 234 194
Charitable Activities 8 7,694 - 7,694 6,978
Total expenditure ; 8,054 - 8,054 7,296
Net income 188 238 426 461
Transfers between funds 22 250 (250) - -
Net movement in funds 438 (12) 426 461
RECONCILIATION OF FUNDS:
Total funds brought forward 7,453 178 7,631 7,170
TOTAL FUNDS CARRIED FORWARD 22 7,891 166 8,057 7,631

Continuing operations

All of the charity's activities are continuing. There were no gains or losses other than those shown above.
Full comparatives for the year to 31 January 2023 are shown in note 27.
The notes on pages 26 to 43 form part of these financial statements.

Page | 22 UK SAILING ACADEMY (UKSA) ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2023/24


™.
UKSA”
‘Sea.Change

Chaity Number 299748

Group balance sheet as at 31 January 2024

Notes Unrestricted Restricted TOTAL TOTAL

Funds Funds = 2023/24 = 2022/23
£000's £000's £000's £000's
FIXED ASSETS 21 8,970 - 8,970 8,531
CURRENT ASSETS
Stocks 15 153 153 148
Debtors: Amounts falling due after more than 16 368 ; 368 317
one year
Debtors: Amounts falling due within one year 16 1,095 - 1,095 1,182
Short Term Deposit Accounts 17 1,310 : 1,310 1,270
Cash at bank and in hand 17 348 166 514 624
3,274 166 3,440 3,541
CREDITORS
Amounts falling due within one year 18 (3,037) - (3,037) (3,052)
NET CURRENT ASSETS 237 166 403 489
TOTAL ASSETS 9,207 166 9,373 9,020
CREDITORS
Amounts falling due after more than one year 19 (1,316) - (1,316) (1,389)
NET ASSETS 7,891 166 8,057 7,631
FUNDS 22
Unrestricted funds;
Designated tangible fixed asset fund (net of 7595 7,095
secured bank loan)
Unrestricted general funds 296 358
7,891 7,453
Restricted funds;
Restricted bursary funds 166 178
Restricted capital fund : -
166 178
TOTAL FUNDS 8,057 7,631

The notes on pages 26 to 43 form part of these financial statements.

The financial statements were approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Trustees on 14 June 2024.
And were signed on its behalf by:

Richard Stokes CBE

Chair of Trustees

14 June 2024

Registered Company Number: 02251024

Page | 23 UK SAILING ACADEMY (UKSA) ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2023/24


—™.
UKSA”

Sea.Change
Charity Number 299248:
Company balance sheet as at 31 January 2024
Notes Unrestricted Restricted TOTAL TOTAL
Funds Funds 2023/24 2022/23
£000's £000's £000's £000's
FIXED ASSETS 21 8,970 - 8,970 8,531
CURRENT ASSETS
Stocks 15 151 - 151 145
Debtors: Amounts falling due after more than 16 368 . 368 317
one year
Debtors: Amounts falling due within one year 16 1,092 - 1,092 1,181.
Short Term Deposit Accounts 17 1,310 - 1,310 1,270
Cash at bank and in hand 7 346 166 512 622
3,267 166 3,433 3,535
CREDITORS
Amounts falling due within one year 18 (3,030) - (3,030) (3,046)
NET CURRENT ASSETS / (LIABILITIES) 237 166 403 489
TOTAL ASSETS 9,207 166 9,373 9,020
CREDITORS
Amounts falling due after more than one year 19 (1,316) - (1,316) (1,389)
NET ASSETS 7,891 166 8,057 7,631
FUNDS 22
Unrestricted funds:
Designated tangible fixed asset fund (net of secured bank loan) 7,595 7,095
Unrestricted general funds 296 358
: 7,891 7,453
Restricted funds:
Restricted bursary funds 166 178
Restricted capital fund - -
166 178
TOTAL FUNDS . 8,057 7,631

The surplus for the financial year 2023/24 dealt with in the financial statements of the parent charity was £426k (2022/23:
£461k). :

The financial statements were approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Trustees on 14 June 2024.
And were signed on its behalf by:

Richard Stokes CBE

Chair of Trustees

14 June 2024

Registered Company Number: 02251024

Page | 24 UK SAILING ACADEMY (UKSA) ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2023/24


UKSATS
“Sea:Change

Gharty Number 209248

Consolidated statement of cash flow for the year ended 31
January 2024

_ 2023/24 2022/23
Notes £000's £000's
NET CASH PROVIDED BY OPERATING ACTIVITIES A 931 223
CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Interest received 50 20
Interest paid and fees (74) (76)
Purchase of tangible fixed assets (916) (2,266)
(940) (2,322)
CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Secured bank loan repaid in year 1) (64)
MANAGEMENT OF LIQUID FUNDS :
Short term deposit account transfers (40) 234
(Decrease)/Increase in cash in the year B (110) (1,929)
NOTE A - RECONCILIATION OF NET CASH PROVIDED BY OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Net income 426 461
Depreciation charges - 477 410
Interest received (50) (20)
Interest paid and charges 74 76
(Increase)/Decrease in stocks (5) (32)
Decrease/(Increase) in debtors 36 (349)
(Decrease)/Increase in creditors (27) (323)
Net cash provided by operating activities 931 223
NOTE B - RECONCILIATION OF NET CASH FLOW TO MOVEMENT IN NET FUNDS
(Decrease)/increase in cash in the year (110) (1,929)
(Decrease)/Increase in short term deposits 40 (234)
Secured bank loan repaid in year 61 64
Change in net cash (9) (2,099)
Net cash at 1 February 458 2,557
Net cash at 31 January 449 458

ANALYSIS OF CHANGE IN CASH AND CASH At 1st Feb 23 Cashflow At 31st Jan 24

EQUIVALENTS

£000's £000's £000's
Cash at bank and in hand 624 (110) 514
Short term deposit accounts 1,270 40 1,310
Loans (1,436) 61 (1,375)
Total 458 (9) 449

Page | 25 UKSAILING ACADEMY (UKSA) ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2023/24


UKSA” ™S
‘Sea:Change

Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31
January 2024

UK Sailing Academy is an incorporated charity (number 299248) and company (number 02251024) with its registered
office at Arctic Road, Cowes, Isle of Wight PO31 7PQ and is incorporated and domiciled in the UK.

1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES

a) Basis of preparation

The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Accounting and Reporting by Charities:
Statement of Recommended Practice applicable to charities preparing their accounts in accordance with the
Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland (FRS 102) (effective 1 January-
2019) - (Charities SORP (FRS 102)), the Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of
Ireland (FRS 102) and the Companies Act 2006.

UKSA meets the definition of a public benefit entity under FRS 102. Assets and liabilities are initially
recognised at historical cost or transaction value unless otherwise stated in the relevant accounting policy
note(s).

b) Going concern

In their assessment of going concern, the trustees have considered the impact of the current economic
climate on the charity. Supported by the management team, they have throughout the year considered the
cash, reserves and net asset position of the charity (I&E, Cashflow and balance sheet forecasts and reviewed
on a rolling basis). Based on these considerations the Trustees consider that the going concern basis for the
charity is appropriate.

The trustees are confident that the management team will continue to mitigate financial risks effectively by
actively managing liquidity and by carefully controlling income and expenditure.

fa Group accounts

The accounts have been consolidated to include the results of the charity's trading subsidiary, which has the
same year-end. No separate profit and loss account is presented for UK Sailing Academy as permitted by
Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006. The parent company's surplus for the year was £426k (2022/23:
£461k).

d) income

All income is included on the Statement of Financial Activities when the charity is legally entitled to the
income and the amount can be quantified with reasonable accuracy. Voluntary income is credited to the
income and expenditure account on a received basis, apart from income that covers a specific period of time
ending after 31 January 2024, the deferred part of the income being shown within creditors. Income from
the charitable activities is recognised on an accruals basis, and income relating to courses which commence
after the balance sheet date is deferred to future accounting periods.

e) Expenditure

All expenditure is accounted for on an accruals basis and allocated to the appropriate heading in the
accounts. Grants offered subject to conditions which have not been met at the year-end date are noted asa
commitment but not accrued as expenditure. Support costs are allocated between the activities of the
charity on a percentage basis in line with the income and activity levels of those activities.

Included within charitable activity are governance costs. Governance costs are those costs associated with
the governance arrangements including external and internal audit and legal advice for Trustees, rather
than the day-to-day management of the charity.

Page | 26 UK SAILING ACADEMY (UKSA) ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2023/24


~~.
UKSA” ™
‘Sea.Change

Charity Number 299248.

Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31
January 2024 (continued)

f) Debtors

Trade and other debtors are recognised at the settlement amount due after any trade discount offered.
Prepayments are valued at the amount prepaid net of any trade discounts due.

2 Cash and cash equivalents

Cash is represented by cash in hand and short term highly liquid investments with a short maturity of 95
days or less from the date of acquisition or opening of the deposit or similar account. This has been split
accordingly on the face of the balance sheet.

h) Creditors and provisions

Creditors and provisions are recognised where the charity has a present obligation resulting from a past
event that will probably result in the transfer of funds to a third party and the amount due to settle the
obligation can be measured or estimated reliably. Creditors and provisions are normally recognised at their
settlement amount after allowing for any trade discounts due.

i) Intangible fixed assets

The company capitalises purchases of intangible assets where the value is over £1k and the useful economic
life is at least three years. Amortisation is provided on all intangible fixed assets using the straight-line
method designed to write off each asset over its expected useful economic life. The expected useful life of
the company’s intangible fixed assets is 10 years.

The company reviews its intangible fixed assets on an annual basis and will consider an impairment of those
assets where the carrying amount (net book value) of the asset is higher than its recoverable amount; the
recoverable amount being defined as the higher of the amount that could be obtained by selling the asset
(Net Realisable Value), and the amount that could be obtained by using the asset (Value in Use).

i) Tangible fixed assets

The company capitalises purchases of tangible assets where the value is over £1k and the useful economic
life is at least three years. Depreciation is provided on all tangible fixed assets using the straight-line method
designed to write off each asset over its expected useful economic life. It is the company’s policy to determine
the expected useful life of each asset individually, ranging from 3 to 100 years.

The company reviews its tangible fixed assets on an annual basis and will consider an impairment of those
assets where the carrying amount (net book value) of the asset is higher than its recoverable amount; the
recoverable amount being defined as the higher of the amount that could be obtained by selling the asset
(Net Realisable Value), and the amount that could be obtained by using the asset (Value in Use).

) Impairment of buildings

Buildings are held at historic cost. This value is subject to the requirement to test assets for impairment in
accordance with section 27 of FRS102.

The company will get a land and buildings valuation done at least every 10 years to confirm no impairment
is requirement, with a directors’ assessment in the interim. The last valuation was performed by Jones Lang
LaSalle in 2021 and showed no impairment was required.

4) Stocks

Stocks of bought in goods are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Stocks held include
Provisions, Bar, Vending, Merchandise, Clothing and Red Funnel ferry tickets.

Stocks also include inventory items held for free distribution to beneficiaries in furtherance of charitable
activities (e.g., boards, masts, sails, wetsuits, paddles, buoyancy aids etc.). Inventory is written down
(impaired) to nil value over a three-year period.

Page | 27 UKSAILING ACADEMY (UKSA) ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2023/24


™. ‘
UKSA”
‘Sea.Change

(Chatity Number 299248

Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31
January 2024 (continued)

l) Taxation

The charity is exempt from corporation tax on its charitable activities. Irrecoverable VAT is recognised as an
expense in the Statement of Financial Activities within training and education expenditure. The trading
subsidiary has not incurred a tax charge as it gifts all profits to the charity.

m) Pensions

The charity does not operate a defined benefit pension scheme. UKSA auto-enrolled eligible employees with
the National Employment Savings Trust (NEST) as the provider for its workplace pension. During 2023/24 UK
Sailing Academy contributions of £69k (2022/23: £62k) were recognised in the Statement of Financial Activities
(see Note 13).

n) Leased assets
Instalments on operating lease contracts are charged on a straight-line basis over the lease life.

0) Fund accounting

General funds are unrestricted funds which are available for use at the discretion of the Trustees in
furtherance of the general objectives of the charity and which have not been designated for other purposes.

Restricted funds are subject to specific conditions laid down by donors as to how they may be used, or which
have been raised by the charity for particular purposes. The aim and use of each restricted fund are set out
in the notes to the financial statements.

p) Financial instruments

The charity has financial assets and liabilities of a kind that qualify as basic financial instruments. Basic
financial instruments are initially recognised at transaction value and subsequently measured at their
settlement value. Note 20 provides more information in respect of this area.

q) Key judgements and estimates

In the application of the charity's accounting policies, which are described in note 1, Trustees are required to
make judgements, estimates and assumptions about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not
readily apparent from other sources.

The estimates and underlying assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors that are
considered to be relevant. Actual results may differ from these estimates.

The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an on-going basis. Revisions to accounting
estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period
or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects the current and future periods.

The Trustees consider that there are no material judgements in applying accounting policies or key sources
of estimation uncertainty.

Page | 28 UK SAILING ACADEMY (UKSA) ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2023/24


UKSAT
‘Sea :Change:

Shavity Number 290248:

Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31
January 2024 (continued)

2 DONATIONS AND LEGACIES 2023/24 2022/23
, ; £000's £000's

Donations (Revenue) 1,004 719
Donations (Capital) 116. 234

Grant funding - 4

1,120 957

3 INCOME FROM CHARITABLE ACTIVITIES 2023/24 2022/23
£000's £000's

Youth Development programmes 8 -

Schools and groups 1,356 1,185

Careers courses for employment 3,336 2,994
Professional training 1,620 1,589
Recreational training 299 318

Total income for training activities 6,619 6,086

Student services and site income 324 295

Lost deposits 158 185

7,101 6,566

Income in respect of courses that commence after the balance sheet date is deferred and recognised
over the period during which the course takes place. An analysis of deferred income is shown below:

2023/24 2022/23

£000's £000's

Gross income from charitable activities 6,926 6,658
van deferred last year that have been released in the current 2338 2246
Amounts deferred to future periods (2,163) (2,338)
7,101 6,566

Page | 29 UK SAILING ACADEMY (UKSA) ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2023/24


™".. ;
UKSA”
‘Sea.Change

hatity Numbey 299248

Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31
January 2024 (continued)

4 INVESTMENT IN TRADING COMPANY

UK Sailing Academy holds 100% of the share capital of UKSA Trading Limited (registered office —
Arctic Road, Cowes, Isle of Wight PO31 7PG — Registered Company No. 06276835) which is
responsible for the provision of commercial services on behalf of the charity.

The charity's investment in the trading company was as 2023/24 2022/23

follows:
£ £
UKSA Trading Limited 1 1

The subsidiary is registered in England and Wales and pays under gift aid its entire profits as
computed for corporation tax purposes to the charity. Its results and balance sheet are as

follows:

Profit and Loss Account 2023/24 2022/23
. £000's £000's
Income 209 195
Cost of sales (126) (124)
Gross profit ; 83 71
Administration expenses (72) (59)
11 12
Amount payable under gift aid to the charity (11) (12)
Retained in subsidiary - -

Balance sheet
Current assets 11 7

Current liabilities (11) (7)

Share Capital (Tota/ Share Capital = £1) -

A UKSA members’ resolution was passed in 2019 for the purpose of the continuance of the Gift Aiding
of the profits of UKSA Trading Limited to UK Sailing Academy annually on the 31st January, until
further notice.

The gift aid payment of £11k (2022/23: £12k) and management charge of £72k (2022/23: £59k)
payable to UK Sailing Academy has been eliminated upon consolidation.

Page | 30 UK SAILING ACADEMY (UKSA) ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2023/24


UKSATS
Sea:Change

Charity Number 299248

Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31
January 2024 (continued)

5 GOVERNMENT SUPPORT 2023/24 2022/23
£000's £000's
Kickstart Scheme Income - 10
1OW Council LRS Grant : 9
: 19
6 INVESTMENT INCOME 2023/24 2022/23
: £000's £000's
Deposit account interest 50 20
50 . 20
7 EXPENDITURE ON RAISING FUNDS 2023/24 2022/23
£000's £000's
Fundraising pay costs 184 161
Fundraising non-pay costs 50 33
234 194
8 EXPENDITURE ON CHARITABLE ACTIVITIES
Training Support Admin, Sales Total
Costs Costs and
Marketing
Costs
2023/24 2023/24 2023/24 2023/24
£000's £000's £000's £000's
Youth Development programmes 80 4 2 86
Schools and Groups 526 696 313 1,535
Careers courses for employment 1,518 1,711 770 3,999
Professional training 473 831 374 1,678
Recreational training 174 153 69 396
2771 3,395 1,528 7,694
Training Support Admin, Sales Total
Costs Costs and
Marketing
Costs
2022/23 2022/23 2022/23 2022/23
£000's £000's £000's £000's
Youth Development programmes 57 77 33 167
Schools and Groups . 394 733 288 1,415
Careers courses for employment 1,367 1,565 685 3,617
Professional training 472 569 339 1,380
Recreational training 162 169 68 399
2,452 3,113 1,413 6,978

Page | 31 UK SAILING ACADEMY (UKSA) ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2023/24


—™.., .
UKSA” ™
Sea.Change

Charity Number 299248

Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31
January 2024 (continued)

10

12

SUPPORT, ADMINISTRATION & SALES AND MARKETING COSTS

Delivery Teams

Depreciation & Write down

Site costs

Catering

Operations and Customer Support
Yacht, Fleet and Vehicle Maintenance
VAT

Other

Total Support Costs

Administration Costs
Sales and Marketing Costs
Interest Payable

Total Support Costs

GOVERNANCE COSTS

Auditors’ remuneration
Company Secretary

Travel and Subsistence

Legal and other professional fees

NET MOVEMENT IN FUNDS

Net movement in funds is stated after charging:
Auditors’ remuneration for statutory work
Operating lease rental for IT and vehicles
Interest paid and charges

Depreciation - owned assets

TRUSTEES’ REMUNERATION AND BENEFITS

2023/24 2022/23
£000's £000's
163 139
565 473
699 665
675 608
363 317
387 367
247 247
296 297
3395 3,113
801 671
693 703

34 39
1,528 1413
4,923 4,526
2023/24 2022/23
£000's £000's
19 7

" 11

2 1

2 -

34 29
2023/24 2022/23
£000's £000's
19 7

61 76

74 76

477 410

There were no trustees’ remuneration or other benefits for the year ended 31 January 2024 (2022/23: £nil).
Travelling expenses are reimbursed, if claimed, to trustees. In 2023/24 this was £2k (2021/22: £1k).

Page | 32 UK SAILING ACADEMY (UKSA) ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2023/24


UKSA" ™S\
‘Sea:Change:

Chasity Number 299748

Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31
January 2024 (continued)

13 STAFF COSTS

The average number of full-time equivalent staff employed by the charity during the financial year
amounted to:

2023/24 2023/24 2022/23 = 2022/23
TotalNo. FTENo. TotalNo. FTENo.

Directly involved in achieving charitable objectives 135 112 125 102
Management and financial administration of the charity 10 10 10 10
145 122 135 112
The aggregate payroll costs of the above were: 2023/24 = 2022/23
£000's £000's
Wages and salaries 3,451 3,097
Social security 285 271
Pension 69 62
3,805 3,430

The number of employees whose emoluments exceeded £60,000 was: 2023/24 = 2022/23

No. No.
£60,000 to £69,999 2 2
£70,000 to £79,999 1 -
£80,000 to £89,999 1 -
£90,000 to £99,999 - 1
£100,000 to £110,000 1 -

Employer Pension Contributions for the above individuals were £13k (2022/23: £8k).
During the year termination payments of £2k (2022/23: £nil) were made.
14 EXECUTIVE REMUNERATION
The total remuneration, benefits and pensions paid to the key management personnel in the year was £461k
(2022/23: £431k). The key management personnel in the year were the Chief Executive, Director of Finance

and Risk, Director of Sales and Marketing (previously Director of Marketing & Business Development), Director
of Training and Operations, and Director of Fundraising & Development.

15 STOCK 2023/24 2022/23
£000's £000's

Stock for resale (trading) 2 3
Inventories (charity) 151 145
Group stocks held 153 148

Page | 33 UK SAILING ACADEMY (UKSA) ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2023/24


™.
UKSA” ™S
‘Sea :Change

‘Charity Number 299248

Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31
January 2024 (continued)

16 DEBTORS

Group Group Charity Charity

2023/24 2022/23 2023/24 2022/23

£000's £000's £000's £000's

Trade debtors for courses : 514 679 511 678
Other debtors 587 538 587 538
Prepayments and accrued income 384 333 384 333

Bad debt provision for other debtors (22) (51) (22) (51)

1,463 1,499 1,460 1,498

Included within other debtors is a total of £387k (2022/23 £361k) relating to repayable bursary amounts due
over 1 year.

Also included within other debtors is a total of £2k (2022/23 £6k) relating to cycle to work scheme repayable
amounts due over 1 year.

Included within bad debt provision for other debtors is a total of (£21k) (2022/23 (£50k) relating to repayable
bursary amounts due over 1 year.

17 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
Group Group Charity Charity
2023/24 2022/23 2023/24 2022/23
£000's £000's £000's £000's

Bank current accounts 507 616 505 616
Bank deposit accounts 1,310 1,272 1,310 1,270
Petty cash 1 1 1 1
Pre-paid expense cards 6 5 6 5

1,824 1,894 1,822 1,892

18 CREDITORS: AMOUNTS FALLING DUE WITHIN ONE YEAR
Group Group Charity Charity
2023/24 2022/23 2023/24 2022/23
£000's £000's £000's £000's

Trade creditors 489 321 484 316
Due to subsidiary undertaking . : 4 1
Social security and other taxes 79 62 79 62
Secured bank loan 62 60 62 60
Other creditors 51 61 51 61
Accruals and deferred income 2,356 2,548 2,350 2,546

3,037 3,052 3,030 3,046

(Included within trade creditors is a total of £93k (2022/23: £93k) relating to retentions of the main build
capital project.

Included within accruals and deferred income is a total of £1,975k (2022/23: £2,123k) relating to amounts
invoiced in advance of the commencement of training courses.

Page | 34 UK SAILING ACADEMY (UKSA) ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2023/24


UKSATS
‘Sea :Change

Charity Number 299248

Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31
January 2024 (continued)

19 CREDITORS: AMOUNTS FALLING DUE AFTER MORE THAN ONE YEAR:

Group Group Charity Charity

2023/24 2022/23 2023/24 2022/23

£000's £000's £000's £000's

Secured bank loan 1,313 1,376 1,313 1,376
Accruals and deferred income 3 13 3 13
1,316 1,389 1,316 1,389

The amounts held within accruals and deferred income relates to amounts invoiced in advance of the
commencement of training courses of £3k (2022/23: £13k).

The group has a bank loan with NatWest which is secured by a fixed and floating charge over the property
and assets of the group. The balance of the loan at 31 January 2024 is £1,375k. The loan has interest charged
at 2.44% for a fixed period (60 months until February 2026) thereafter at 2.09% over Base Rate for the
remaining period. The loan is due for final repayment in January 2042.

The maturity of the bank loan has been analysed as follows:

Net Net
Repayments Repayments
2023/24 2022/23
£000 £000
within one year 62 60
1-2 years 63 62
2-5 years 196 193
Greater than 5 years 1,054 1,121
1,375 1,436
In addition, deferred income has been analysed as follows:
Group Group Charity Charity
2023/24 2022/23 2023/24 2022/23
£000's £000's £000's £000's
Deferred income at 1 February 2338 2,246 2,338 2,240
Applied during the year (2,338) (2,246) (2,338) (2,240)
Released during the year ; 2,163 2,338 2,157 2,338
Deferred income at 31 January 2,163 2,338 2,157 2,338

Page | 35 UK SAILING ACADEMY (UKSA) ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2023/24


UKSA” “\
Sea. Change.

Charity Number 209248

Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31
January 2024 (continued)

20 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

Financial assets held at amortised cost are trade debtors, other debtors, accrued income, amount owed by
group companies and cash held at bank. Note this excludes stock and prepayments.

Financial liabilities held at amortised cost are trade creditors, accruals, bank loan and amounts owed by group
companies. This excludes deferred income and social security and other taxes.

Group 2023/24 2022/23
£000's £000's

Financial assets measured at amortised cost 3,067 3,234
Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost (2,113) (2,041)
2023/24 2022/23

£000's £000's

Total interest income for financial assets held at amortised cost 50 20
Charity 2023/24 2022/23
£000's £000's

Financial assets measured at amortised cost 3,062 3,231
Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost (2,110) (2,037)
2023/24 2022/23

£000's £000's

Total interest income for financial assets held at amortised cost ; 50 20

Page | 36 UX SAILING ACADEMY (UKSA) ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2023/24


UKSA” ™S

‘Sea Change

Cnarity Number 279248

Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31
January 2024 (continued)

21

FIXED ASSETS

COST

As at 1 February 2023
Additions

Transfer

As at 31 January 2024

DEPRECIATION
As at 1 February 2023
Charge for year
As at 31 January 2024

NET BOOK VALUE
As at 31 January 2024

As at 31 January 2023

cosT

As at 1 February 2023
Additions

Transfer

As at 31 January 2024

DEPRECIATION
As at 1 February 2023
Charge for year
As at 31 January 2024

NET BOOK VALUE
As at 31 January 2024

As at 31 January 2023

Page | 37 UKSAILING ACADEMY (UKSA) ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2023/24

Assets under Freehold oo Equipment
course of land and teasehold Swimming and Training
construction buildings es p Aids
£000's £000's £000's £000's £000's
54 7,542 316 200 1,266
18 372 - - 226
(38) - : - -
34 7,914 316 200 1,492
- 503 54 200 871
167 14 - 84
- 670 68 200 955
34 7,244 248 - 537
54 7,039 262 - 395
Motor Yachts and Intangible Totals
vehicles _ training fleet Assets
£000's £000's £000's £000's
19 1,991 89 11,477
- 282 18 916
- 38 - -
19 2311 107 12,393
14 1,296 8 2,946
2 200 10 477
16 1,496 18 3,423
3 “B15 89 8,970
5 695 81 8,531


UKSA” ™S
‘Sea .Change.

harity Number 299268"

Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31
January 2024 (continued)

22. MOVEMENT IN FUNDS

Net Transfers
Asat Movement in between As at
1 Feb 23 funds Funds 31 Jan 24
£000's £000's £000's £000's
Unrestricted funds
Fixed assets fund 7,095 (476) 976 7,595
General fund 358 653 (715) 296
Trading activities - 11 (11) -
7,453 188 250 7,891
Restricted funds :
Restricted capital fund - 116 (116) -
Stephen Thomas Bursary 23 63 (36) 50
Noel Lister Memorial Fund 59 3 (26) 36
Milo Hanlon Fund 39 - (5) 34
Will Black Fund 16 - (5) 11
Seafarer's 41 1 (7) 35
Polly Birch Fund - - - -
Trinity House Fund - 55 (55) -
178 238 (250) 166
TOTAL FUNDS 7,631 426 - 8,057
Net movement in funds, included in the above are as follows:
Incoming Resources Movement in
resources expended funds
£000's £000's £000's
Unrestricted funds
Fixed asset fund - (476) (476)
General fund 8,033 (7,380) 653
Trading activities 209 (198) 11
8,242 (8,054) 188
Restricted funds
Restricted capital fund 116 - 116
Stephen Thomas Bursary 63 - 63
Noel Lister Memorial Fund 3 - 3
Milo Hanlon Fund - - -
Will Black Fund - - -
Seafarer's 1 - 1
Polly Birch Fund - . - -
Trinity House Fund 55 : 55
238 - 238
TOTAL FUNDS 8,480 (8,054) 426

Page | 38 UK SAILING ACADEMY (UKSA} ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2023/24


»

UKSA” ™S
‘Sea:Change
. Charity Number 299248
Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31
January 2024 (continued)
22 MOVEMENT IN FUNDS (PRIOR YEAR COMPARATIVES)
Net Transfers
Asat Movement in between Asat
1 Feb 22 funds Funds 31 Jan 23
£000's £000's £000's £000's
Unrestricted funds
Fixed assets fund 5,175 (410) 2,330 7,095
General fund 308 562 (512) 358
Trading activities - 12 (12) -
5,483 164 1,806 7,453
Restricted funds
Restricted capital fund 1,337 234 (1,571) -
Stephen Thomas Bursary 42 - (19) 23
Noel Lister Memorial Fund 194 1 (136) 59
Milo Hanlon Fund 34 1 4 39
will Black Fund 14 - 2 16
Seafarer's 58 1 (18) 41
Polly Birch Fund 8 - (8) -
Trinity House Fund - 60 (60) -
1,687 297 (1,806) 178
TOTAL FUNDS 7,170 461 : 7,631
Net movement in funds, included in the above are as follows:
Incoming Resources Movement in
resources expended funds
£000's £000's £000's
Unrestricted funds
Fixed asset fund - (410) (410)
General fund 7,265 (6,703) 562
Trading activities 195 (183) 12
7,460 (7,296) 164
Restricted funds
Restricted capital fund 234 - 234
Stephen Thomas Bursary - - -
Noel Lister Memorial Fund 1 - 1
Milo Hanlon Fund 1 - 1
will Black Fund - - -
Seafarer's 1 - 1
UKSA Assisted Funding - - -
Polly Birch Fund 60 : 60
Trinity House Fund 297 : 297
TOTAL FUNDS 7,757 (7,296) 461

Page | 39 UK SAILING ACADEMY (UKSA) ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2023/24


UKSA”
‘Sea Change

Chasity Number 299248

Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31
January 2024 (continued)

Unrestricted funds

“

8)

Cc)

The fixed asset fund shows the net book value of unrestricted fixed assets (net of secured bank loan). Net movement
in funds are represented by the net of profit/ (loss) on disposal, impairment and depreciation £476k (2022/23: £410k).
Transfers are represented by net capital expenditure of £916k plus the in-year reduction of secure bank loan £61k.

The unrestricted general fund represents funds which are freely available for use by the charity, including those
generated from trading activities.

Net movements in funds are represented by all income and Expenditure movements not already represented by
movements on other reserves of £653k (2022/23: (£562k)}. Transfers are the sum of net working capital movements
excluding transfers on other reserves of (£715k) (2022/23: (£512k)).

The trading activities fund is represented by the wholly owned subsidiary UKSA Trading Ltd profit / (loss). For the year
2023/24 UKSA Trading Ltd returned a profit of £11k (2022/23: £12k) which was transferred to the UK Sailing Academy’s
unrestricted general fund in the same year.

Restricted funds

A)

B)

C)

D)

)

F)

G)

H)

A restricted Capital Fund was set up in 2015/16 to hold donations that are specifically to fund capital works required.
In 2023/24 £116k net income was received (2022/23 £234k) less (£116k) capital expenditure in the year (2022/23:
(£1,571k)).

The Stephen Thomas Bursary was set up in memory of Stephen Thomas to provide sailing and seamanship experiences
for young people between the ages of 16 and 20.

The Noel Lister Memorial Fund was set up in memory of Noel (the founder of UKSA) to provide sailing and seamanship
experiences for young people.

The Milo Hanlon Fund was set up in memory of Milo who was a student at UKSA in 2012. The fund provides assistance
to young people wishing to undertake professional training for employment.

The William Black Fund was set up in 2016 in memory of Will. The fund provides financial support to individuals with
a desire to enter the maritime sector.

The Seafarer’s fund was set up in 2017/18. The fund provides assistance to young people wishing to undertake
professional training for employment.

The Polly Birch fund was set up in 2017/18. This fund was set-up in memory of Polly Birch to provide watersports
experiences for school children through capital and revenue donations.

The Trinity fund was set up in 2011. The fund provides assistance to young people wishing to undertake professional
training for employment.

Page | 40 UK SAILING ACADEMY (UKSA) ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2023/24


UKSATN

Sea Change

Charity Number 299248

Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31
January 2024 (continued)

23 ANALYSIS OF NET ASSETS BETWEEN FUNDS — GROUP

Unrestricted Unrestricted Restricted Total funds
Group Funds . Funds Funds as at
General Designated 31 Jan 24

£000's £000's £000's £000's
Fixed assets - 8,970 - 8,970
Current assets 3,274 - 166 3,440
Creditors due in less than one year (2,975) - - (2,975)
Creditors due in more than one year (3) - - (@)
Secured Bank Loan due in less than one year - (62) - (62)
Secured Bank Loan due in more than one year - (1,313) - (1,313)
296 7,595 166 8,057

ANALYSIS OF NET ASSETS BETWEEN FUNDS — GROUP (PRIOR YEAR COMPARATIVES)

Unrestricted Unrestricted potted Total funds

Group Funds Funds

General Designated Funds at 31 Jan 23
£000's £000's £000's £000's

“Fixed assets - 8,531 - 8,531
Current assets 3,363 - 178 3,541
Creditors due in less than one year (2,992) - - (2,992)
Creditors due in more than one year (13) - - (13)
Secured Bank Loan due in less than one year - (60) - (60)
Secured Bank Loan due in more than one year - (1,376) - (1,376)
358 7,095 178 7,631

ANALYSIS OF NET ASSETS BETWEEN FUNDS — CHARITY

Unrestricted — Unrestricted . Total funds
Charity Funds Funds Restricted as at
General Designated unds 31 Jan 24

£000's £000's £000's £000's
Fixed assets - 8,970 - 8,970
Current assets 3,267 - 166 3,433
Creditors due in jess than one year (2,968) - - (2,968)
Creditors due in more than one year (3) : - (3)
Secured Bank Loan due in less than one year - (62) - (62)
Secured Bank Loan due in more than one year - (1,313) - 1,313)
296 7,595 166 8,057

Page | 41 UK SAILING ACADEMY (UKSA) ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2023/24


UKSA™ =~

wa tanes
Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 January
2024 (continued)

ANALYSIS OF NET ASSETS BETWEEN FUNDS — CHARITY (PRIOR YEAR COMPARATIVES)

Unrestricted — Unrestricted Restricted Total funds

Charity Funds Funds

General Designated Funds at 31 jan 23
£000's £000's £000's £000's

Fixed assets - 8,531 - 8,531
Current assets : 3,357 - 178 3,535
Creditors due in less than one year (2,986) - - (2,986)
Creditors due in more than one year (13) - - (13)
Secured Bank Loan due in less than one year - (60) - (60)
Secured Bank Loan due in more than one year - (1,376) - (1,376)
358 7,095 178 7,631

24 RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES

The company was under the ultimate control of the trustees.

Sir Anthony Greener, trustee of UKSA, is also Chairman of Minton Charity Trust which gave financial
assistance to UKSA in the form of donations of £30k in the year (2022/23: £70k).

Claire Locke, trustee of UKSA, is also a trustee of Daisie Rich Trust who gave financial assistance to
UKSA in the form of donations of £5k in the year (2022/23: £11k). Claire Locke paid UKSA £3k for a
mooring (2022/23 £3k).

Donations were received from three trustees totalling £1k (2022/23: two trustees £21k).

25 OPERATING LEASES

At the year end, the Group were committed to the following future minimum lease payments in respect of
operating leases:
Vehicles and equipment

2023/24 2022/23

£000's £000's

Less than one year 54 23
Greater than one year and less than five years 81 29
Later than five years : -
135. 52

26 CAPITAL COMMITMENTS

The charity has no capital commitments as at 31 January 2024 (31 January 2023: £176k for work on two
shower blocks).

Page | 42 UK SAILING ACADEMY (UKSA) ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2023/24


™:.
UKSA”
“Sea :Change

{Chatty Number 299248

Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31
January 2024 (continued)

27 COMPARATIVE SOFA FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST JANUARY 2023

Unrestricted Restricted TOTAL
Funds Funds 2022/23
£000's £000's £000's
INCOME FROM: ,
Donations, Legacies and Grants : 660 297 957
Charitable Activities 6,566 - 6,566
' Other Trading Activities 195 - 195
Government Support 19 - 19
Investments 20 - 20
Other - -
Total income 7,460 297 7,757
EXPENDITURE ON:
Raising funds:
Trading Activities 124 - 124
Expenditure on raising funds 194 - 194
Charitable Activities 6,978 - 6,978
Total expenditure 7,296 - 7,296
Net income/(expenditure) 164 297 461
Transfers between funds 1,806 (1,806) -
Net movement in funds 1,970 (1,509) 461
RECONCILIATION OF FUNDS:
Total funds brought forward 5,483 1,687 7,170
TOTAL FUNDS CARRIED FORWARD 7,453 178 7,631

Page | 43 UK SAILING ACADEMY (UKSA) ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2023/24


