Unipres (UK) Limited
Annual report and financial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2023

UNIPRES

Registered number: 02163867

Y

*ADSRRKIJE*
A114

22/06/2024 #96
COMPANIES HOUSE

SATURDAY

4

Unipres (UK) Limited

Contents

Officers and professional advisers

Strategic report

Directors’ report

Directors’ responsibilities statement

Independent auditor’s report to the members of Unipres (UK) Limited

Profit and loss account

Statement of comprehensive income
Balance sheet } a |
Statement of changes in equity =

Notes to the financial statements


Unipres (UK) Limited
Officers and Professional Advisers

Directors

Anthony Adams

Gary Graham (Resigned 31 March 2023)
Hideo Kanazawa

Yukihiko Morita

Nobuya Uranishi

lan Vasey (Appointed 1 April 2023)
Mitsunobu Yamanaka

Company Secretary

Andrew Fawell

Auditor

Deloitte LLP
Statutory Auditor
One Trinity Gardens
Newcastle

NEI 2HF

Bankers

Lloyds Bank

102 Grey Street
Newcastle Upon Tyne
NE99 1SL

Mizuho Bank, Ltd
Bracken House
One Friday Street
London

EC4M 9JA

Solicitors

Womble Bond Dickinson
St Ann’s Wharf

112 Quayside

Newcastle Upon Tyne
NE99 1SB

Registered Office

Cherry Blossom Way
Sunderland

Tyne and Wear
England

SRS 3NT

Registered Number: 02163867

Unipres (UK) Limited
Strategic Report

Review of the business

The principal activity undertaken at the company’s premises in Cherry Blossom Way, Sunderland during
the year was the stamping and sub-assembly of component parts for motor vehicles. There was no
significant changes in the company’s principal activity in the year under review. The Directors are not
aware, at the date of this report, of any additional changes.

On the 31 December 2020 the UK left the European Union (EU) with the ending of the transition period.
The Directors can confirm that when the transition ended there was no disruption to the business.

During 2021 and 2022, the business has suffered from the global semiconductor shortage that has impacted
the automotive industry and resulted in the original equipment manufacturer (OEM’s) suspending
production at short notice throughout this period. The semiconductor and component shortages has
continued into the first half of 2023, with no impact in the remainder of the year.

The Unipres Training Academy (UTA) used to develop our apprentices and upskill the existing workforce
has continued to succeed. The Academy continues to support the School Engagement Programme, which
we see as crucial to the engagement of younger people in STEM related careers.

UTA is key to engaging with schools and allows the company to promote engineering and manufacturing
within the automotive sector which contributes significantly to the North East in England. This is facilitated
at the company’s main site and actively participating with groups such as the North East Automotive
Alliance (NEAA) and Society of Motor Manufactures and Traders (SMMT).

The company continues to actively engage with employees through feedback forms and wellbeing surveys
to understand their needs. Plantwide briefs inform employees about the company’s financial performance,
key performance indicators (KPI’s), health safety and environmental legislation and future vision, with the
opportunity for employees to ask questions directly to Board members. A Review Committee made up
from employee representatives regularly meet with Company representatives to share information and
consult on changes that may affect the workforce.

The company continued to invest in tangible fixed assets £4.2m to make improvements to aging press
machines and assembly facilities (2022: £2.9m) to secure the long-term future that will support all
stakeholders and the local economy. Capital investment is expected to increase over the next two years to
support new model introductions.

Sales turnover from automotive components increased by 15% (2023: £175.9m ; 2022: £153.0m) compared
to prior year which was a result of both the improvements to the global semiconductor shortage and the
first full year of production for the Nissan Qashqai e-Power vehicle. Tooling sales during the year were
£1.6m a significant reduction to the previous year (2022: £20.9m), due to no new models launching during
the year.

As at the balance sheet date the company had a cash balance of £288k (2022: £4.0m) which has been
positively impacted from improved earnings, which are offset from working capital, repayment of long-
term borrowing and pension deficit contributions.

The company made a profit for the financial year after taxation of £4.7m (2022: £0.1m). The change
compared to 2022 is a direct result from improved customer demand and one-off activities allowing the
operation improve profitability. No dividend was proposed (2022: Nil). The retained profit of £4.7m has
been transferred to reserves.

Unipres (UK) Limited

Strategic Report (continued)

Section 172(1) statement

The Directors considered (a) to (f) when performing their duties.

(a)

()

©)

@)

The likely consequences of any decision in the long term.

The Unipres (UK) Limited Pension and Life Assurance Scheme (the scheme) is a defined benefit
pension scheme, which was closed to new entrants with effect from 1 January 2008, and closed to
future accrual with effect from | June 2014. The most recent actuarial valuations of scheme assets
and the present value of the defined benefit obligation were carried out at 31 December 2019, with
details included in note 20. The company currently has a recovery plan to contribute £78.7M to
eliminate the deficit.

The company invested in tangible fixed assets £4.2m (2022: £2.9m) to secure the long-term future
that will support all stakeholders and the local economy.

The Aston plant which supported the Honda business ended production during 2021, a sub-lease
for the facility has been agreed till 2024, therefore an onerous rent provision that was recognised
in 2020 has partially been reversed as a result.

The interests of the company’s employees.

The company continues to actively engage with employees through feedback forms and wellbeing
surveys to understand their needs. Plantwide briefs that are held biannually to inform employees
about the company’s financial performance, KPI’s, health safety and environmental legislation
and future vision, with the opportunity for employees to ask questions directly to Board members.

A Review Committee made up from employee representatives regularly meet with Company
representatives to share information and consult on changes that may affect the workforce.

The need to foster the company’s business relationships with suppliers, customers and others.

Competitive pressure is a continuing risk for the company which could result in loss of business
to key competitors. The company manages this risk by striving to continuously improve quality,
cost and delivery performance, by capitalising on its technical expertise and maintaining strong
relationships with its customers.

A high proportion of the company’s business is placed with one customer. The company manages
this risk by maintaining a strong relationship with its main customer, working together to achieve
value add / value engineered ideas to support efficiency improvements.

The company has successfully been nominated to supply components to Jaguar Land Rover which
will commence in 2025.

The impact of the company’s operations on the community and the environment.

The Unipres Training Academy (UTA) used to develop our apprentices and upskill the existing
workforce has continued to succeed. During the year the Academy continues to support the Schoo!
Engagement Programme, which we see as crucial to the engagement of younger people in STEM
related careers. .

UTA is key to engaging with schools and allows the company to promote engineering and
manufacturing within the automotive sector which contributes significantly to the North East of
England. This is facilitated at the company’s main site and actively participating with groups such
as the North East Automotive Alliance (NEAA) and Society of Motor Manufactures and Traders
(SMMT).

The company’s health and safety policy considers a number of KPI's. In 2023 the number of lost
days per employee reduced to 0.14 (2022: 0.16). It is planned that in the year ahead the company
will strive to reduce the number of accidents with a target for zero injuries by 2025 and continue
educating all levels of employees. The company continued its activities to reduce its impact on
the environment through compliance with ISO 14001:2015 and increased legislation and reporting.

Unipres (UK) Limited

Strategic Report (continued)

In an effort to reduce the energy consumption the company has introduced a solar installation in
2020 at its main site in Sunderland. The 5,400Kw solar panel installation on the roof of the
building, which generates an annual yield of 4,300,000 kWh / kWp. ,

(e) The desirability of the company maintaining a reputation for high standards of business conduct.

The company has policies relating to code of conduct, which explains the manner in which we
behave as an organisation and how we expect our employees to act. And code of ethics that
supports the Global Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) requirement to perform our day to day
activities at work and a guideline of how we conduct ourselves in our private lives as well.

(f) The need to act fairly as between members of the company.

There is only one shareholder, Unipres Corporation. The Directors communicate strategy and
mid-term plan corporate challenges between local and group management, through regular
meetings and visits to site representing member interests.

Key performance indicators

In 2023 the company continued to work and improve performance, the part sales turnover increased 15%
(2023: £175.9m compared to 2022: £153.0m) which is a result of both the improvements to the global
semiconductor shortage and the first full year of production for the Nissan Qashqai e-Power vehicle

The gross margin as a percentage of sales was 7.8% (2022: 5.7%) which is from the volume improvements
during the year, with the gross profit per employee being £15,145 (2022: £11,574 per employee).

There was an operating profit of 5.1% as a percentage of sales (2022: 1.6%) and a profit for the financial
year after tax was 2.7% (2022: 0.1%) which shows an improved performance to last year. The improvement
is from the increased sales turnover and one-off activities.

The pension scheme deficit is £44.2m (2022: £44.8m) a positive change of £0.6m, which is due to the
change in market conditions and the underlying assumptions used to calculate the schemes liabilities under
FRS102. The asset value reflects the results of lower than expected scheme returns, largely as a result of
the volatility in the gilts market on the LDI funds held by the scheme. The liabilities are slightly higher
principally due to the lower discount rate (2023: 4.40% compared to 2022: 4.55%) that reflects the change
in corporate bond yields over the last year, therefore increasing the liabilities.

The company’s health and safety policy considers a number of KPi’s. In 2023 the number of lost days per
employee reduced to 0.14 (2022: 0.16). It is planned that in the year ahead the company will strive to
reduce the number of accidents with a target for zero injuries by 2025 and continue educating all levels of
employees. The company continued its activities to reduce its impact on the environment through
compliance with ISO14001:2015 and increased legislation and reporting.

The company retained its quality accreditation standard IATF 16949:2016, which places more emphasis on
tisk. The recertification audit was in December 2023 was successful. At the time of writing, we are
awaiting the certificate which is valid until April 2027, when the company will start the recertification
process.

Our ongoing improvement plans supported by UPS (“Unipres Production System”) principles along with
cost ratio activity will continue to challenge and improve these key performance indicators in 2024. During
the year the company achieved 14 of the 15 targeted KPI’s, which is the second consecutive year an
outstanding achievement. These tools are key to ensure resources focus in the area that will enhance
profitability.

Unipres (UK) Limited
Strategic Report (continued)

Principal risks and uncertainties

Competitive pressure is a continuing risk for the company which could result in loss of business to key
competitors. The company manages this risk by striving to continuously improve quality, cost and delivery
performance, by capitalising on its technical expertise and maintaining strong relationships with its
customers. :

A high proportion of the company’s business is placed with one customer. The company manages this risk
by maintaining a strong relationship with its main customer. Furthermore the company aims to reduce this
by actively pursuing business with other customers and can confirm nomination by Jaguar Land Rover
(JLR) for future business commencing in 2025.

A proportion of the company’s income and expenditure is denominated in Euros and Japanese Yen, which
is therefore an exposure risk with the movements in these currencies relative to Pound Sterling. The
company manages this risk by matching currency inflows and outflows where possible while closely
monitoring the exchange rate movements.

A significant proportion of the company’s expenditure is linked to the fluctuations in commodity prices,
and in particular the price of steel. The company has an agreement with its main customers to pass on the
impact of any steel price fluctuations through changes in the sales price, thus mitigating any risk.

On the 31 December 2020 the UK left the European Union (EU) with the ending of the transition period.
The Directors can confirm that when the transition ended there was no disruption to the business. While a
trade agreement between the UK and EU has been reached, this does not eliminate changes in the future
but the risk is minimal.

Asa knock on effect from COVID-19 the automotive sector has been impacted from global semiconductor
shortages during 2021 and 2022. This is due to the demand for electronic devices such as laptops increasing
significantly during the pandemic. This has meant that there are fewer chips available for the automotive
industry. At the time of writing, it is not expected that semiconductors will be a future concern.

During the year the business has experienced disruption from suppliers, which can be linked to the financial
stress faced on businesses during the COVID-19 period. This is mitigated through continual review of the
supply chain to minimise risk and avoid any disturbance to customers.

Attacks on transport routes through the Red Sea have not resulted in any significant delays to component
deliveries. Alternative routes are in place until the disruption ends.

Utilities cost have increased significantly since Apri! 2022, although UK Government intervention between
October 2022 and March 2023 has helped mitigate part of the on cost. The market remains volatile with
reductions projected, but still significantly higher than two years ago, which is a consequence of the Ukraine
war and global factors. :

Inflation appears to have peaked but continues to be a concern, This affects the labour costs within the
business and the ability to attract the skills required. The Government continues to implement measures to
reduce inflation to achieve its target. The company is investigating ways to mitigate these additional costs.

Unipres (UK) Limited
Strategic Report (continued)

Future developments
The Directors expect the general level of activity compared to 2023 to be similar in 2024.

The Nissan Leaf reached the end of model life and ceased to be manufactured at the end of February 2024.
The company has been successfully nominated for the next generation EV from Nissan and with JLR for
vehicles that start production in 2025. At the time of writing, the company is competing to win business
for the next generation Nissan Juke and Qashqai.

There are no significant adjusting events since the balance sheet date which would impact the financial
statements. :

Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by:

Andrew Fawell

Company Secretary
29 May 2024

Unipres (UK) Limited
Cherry Blossom Way
Sunderland

Tyne and Wear
England

SRS 3NT

Unipres (UK) Limited

Directors’ Report

The Directors present their annual report on the affairs of the company, together with the financial
statements and auditor’s report, for the year ended 31 December 2023.

Future developments and events after the balance sheet date

Details of future developments and events that have occurred after the balance sheet date can be found in
thé Strategic Report on page 3 and form part of this report by cross-reference.

Global semiconductor shortage

As a knock on effect from COVID-19 the automotive sector has been impacted from global semiconductor
shortages during 2021 and 2022. This is due to the demand for electronic devices such as laptops increasing
significantly during the pandemic. This has meant that there are fewer chips available for the automotive
industry. The global shortage experienced during 2023 was minimal with no impact to the financial result.

Supply Chain Disruption

During the year the business has experienced disruption from suppliers, which can be linked to the financial
stress faced on businesses during the COVID-19 period. This is mitigated through continual review of the
supply chain to minimise risk and avoid any disturbance to customers.

Attacks on transport routes through the Red Sea have not resulted in any significant delays to component
deliveries. Alternative routes are in place until the disruption ends.

Research and development

During the year the company benefits from the strong commitment of the Unipres Group with research and
development to improve product design, quality and production methods in its UK operation.

Going concern

The Directors have reviewed the trading prospects of the company and note that there are a range of factors,
which could influence the profitability of the company in the short and longer term. The directors’ report
further describes the financial position of the company; its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing
facilities; the company’s objectives, policies and instruments and hedging activities; and its exposure to
credit risk and liquidity risk.

The current economic conditions create uncertainties particularly over (a) the availability of bank finance
in the foreseeable future (b) the level of demand for the company’s products; (c) the exchange rate between
pounds sterling, euro and yen and thus the consequence for the cost of the company’s raw materials.

The company has three facilities available to meets its day to day working capital requirements; the use of
a supply chain finance, a short-term loan facility of £30m available til! 20 April 2025 at which point this
will be subject to negotiation, a long-term facility of £25. 1m, agreed in July 2021, that is split 50:50 between
Mizuho Bank and Japan Bank for International Cooperation (JBIC) and in place until June 2025.

Unipres (UK) Limited
Directors’ Report (continued)

Going concern (continued)

In addition to the operating cash requirement, there is a cash need to support planned investment for new
model spending that will generate future profits. The short-term borrowing facility of £30m is in place with
Mizuho Bank until! 20 April 2025.

In addition to the funding provided by Mizuho and JBIC the Directors have received confirmation from the
parent undertaking, Unipres Corporation, that further loan financing will be made available as required to
support the operations of the company. :

The future demand for the company’s business is subject to increased fluctuation as a result changing
customer behaviour with the switch to electric cars and the delay from 2030 to 2035 for zero emission
vehicles. The company is also exposed to foreign exchange risk as a result of a proportion of transactions
being denominated in Euros and Japanese Yen.

Having considered the matters set out above, the Directors have identified that the current economic
conditions present uncertainties however, having made appropriate enquiries of the funding providers and
considered the operational projections for the forthcoming 12 months the Directors have a reasonable
expectation that sufficient funds will be available to allow the company to continue to trade and invest in
the normal manner, thus, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial
statements.

The strategic report includes principle risks and uncertainties making specific reference to the supply chain
disruption, inflation and the energy crisis.

Financial risk management objectives and policies

The company’s activities expose it to a number of financial risks including credit risk, cash flow risk and
liquidity risk. The use of financial derivatives is governed by the company’s policies approved by the board
of directors, which provide written principles on the use of financial derivatives to manage these risks. The
company does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. :

Cash flow risk

The company’s activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange
rates and interest rates. Foreign exchange is mitigated using forward contracts arranged during the financial
year. At the end of the financial year, there were no open positions.

Credit risk

The company’s principal financial assets are bank balances and cash, trade and other receivables, and
investments.

The company’s credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade receivables. The amounts presented in the
balance sheet are net of allowances for doubtful receivables. An allowance for impairment is made where
there is an identified loss event which, based on previous experience, is evidence of a reduction in the
recoverability of the cash flows.

The credit risk on liquid funds and derivative financial instruments is limited because the counterparties are
banks with high credit-ratings assigned by international credit-rating agencies.

The company has a significant concentration of credit risk, with a high proportion of the company’s
business placed with one customer. The company manages this risk by maintaining a strong relationship
with its main customer. Furthermore the company aims to reduce this risk by actively seeking to secure
business with other customers.

Unipres (UK) Limited
Directors’ Report (continued)

Liquidity risk
In order to maintain liquidity to ensure that sufficient funds are available for ongoing operations and future
developments, the company uses a mixture of long-term and short-term debt finance.

Further details regarding liquidity risk can be found in the note 1 to the financial statements.

Dividends

During the year the directors paid no dividends for the year ended 31 December 2022 to the ordinary
shareholder. The directors do not propose a dividend for the year ended 31 December 2023.

Directors

The directors, who served throughout the year and up to the date of signing the financial statements, were
as follows:

Anthony Adams

Gary Graham (Resigned 31 March 2023)
Hideo Kanazawa

Yukihiko Morita

Nobuya Uranishi

Tan Vasey (Appointed 1 April 2023)

Mitsunobu Yamanaka

Directors indemnities

The Company has made qualifying third party indemnity provisions for the benefit of its Directors which
_ were made during the year and remain in force at the date of this report.

Political contributions

No political donations were made during the year (2022: no donations).

Disabled employees

Applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully considered, bearing in mind the abilities
of the applicant concerned. In the event of members of staff becoming disabled every effort is made to
ensure that their employment with the company continues and that appropriate training is arranged. It is
the policy of the company that the training, career development and promotion of disabled persons should,
as far as possible, be identical to that of other employees.

Employee consultation

The company places considerable value on the involvement of its employees and has continued to keep
them informed on matters affecting them as employees and on the various factors affecting the performance
of the Group and the Company. This is achieved through formal and informal meetings, and regular
briefings, where employees have the opportunity to speak openly and directly to Senior Management.
Employee representatives are consulted regularly on a wide range of matters affecting their current and
future interests.

10

Unipres (UK) Limited

Directors’ Report (continued)

Energy and carbon reporting

We have reported on all sources of GHG emissions and energy usage as required under The Large and
Medium-Sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 as amended.

GHG emissions and energy usage

Emissions from combustion of gas (Scope 1 — tonnes of CO2e)

Emissions from combustion of fuel for transport purposes (Scope 1 ~
tonnes of CO2e) .

Emissions from electricity purchased for own use, including for the
purposes of transport (Scope 2 — tonnes of CO2e)

Emissions from business travel in rental cars or employee-owned
vehicles where company is responsible for purchasing the fuel
(Scope 3 - tonnes of CO2e)

Total gross COze based on above

Energy consumption used to calculate emissions —- kwh 21,710,500 19,099,958

Total gross COze (as above) per £m revenue 4.32 6.40

Reporting boundary and methodology

The total energy consumption of 21.7m kwh (2022: 19.1m kwh) has increased by 14% while the total gross
CO2e per £m revenue of 4.32 (2022: 6.40) has reduced 33%.

When preparing the energy and carbon reporting for the current year disclosure management noted an
update to the data used in relation to business travel in scope 3. Scope 3 is still in development ahead of
our target in 2030. Scope 3 data reported in the 2022 financial statements accordingly has been corrected
in the table above. The 2022 figure original reported for total gross CO2e was 929.

We have followed the 2019 UK Government environmental reporting guidance. We have used the GHG
Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard (revised edition) and emission factors from the UK.
Government’s GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2019 to calculate the above disclosures.

Energy efficiency actions taken

In the last few years we have taken a number of steps to improve energy efficiency. Our solar panel
installation on the roof of the building generated a yield of 4,301,000 kWhr / kWp in 2023, which was
slightly up on 2022. We are investigating the possibility of further installations either on the roof or ground
based, with battery storage facilities also being looked at.

We have continued to use electricity supplied from nuclear power stations, which has been confirmed by
our provider and therefore allows use to operate with zero emissions.

The use of LPG and City Gas has reduced through improved management for the second year running by
7%. We are also looking to invest in wind power, which will significantly reduce our dependency on
drawing electricity from the grid.

11

Unipres (UK) Limited

Directors’ Report (continued)

Auditor
Each of the persons who is a director at the date of approval of this report confirms that:

eso far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Company's auditor is
unaware; and

e the director has taken all the steps that he/she ought to have taken as a director in order to make
himself/herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the company's auditor is
aware of that information.

This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of s418 of the
Companies Act 2006.

A resolution to reappoint Deloitte LLP will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.

Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by:

Andrew Fawell

Company Secretary
29 May 2024

Unipres (UK) Limited
Cherry Blossom Way
Sunderland
Tyne and Wear

. England
SR5 3NT

12

Unipres (UK) Limited

Directors’ responsibilities statement

The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information
included on the Company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and
dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.

Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under that law
the directors have elected to prepare the financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally
Accepted Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law), including FRS
102 “The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland”. Under company law
the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and
fair view of the state of affairs of the company and of the profit or loss of the company for that period. In
preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to:

select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently,
make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent;

¢ state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material
departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements; and

¢ prepare the financial statements on the going concem basis unless it is inappropriate to presume
that the company will continue in business.

The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and
explain the company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position
of the company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act
2006. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and hence for taking reasonable
steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.

13

Unipres (UK) Limited
Independent auditor’s report to the members of Unipres (UK) Limited

Report on the audit of the financial statements
Opinion
In our opinion the financia! statements of Unipres (UK) Limited (the ‘company’):

e give a true and fair view of the state of the company’s affairs as at 31 December 2023 and of its profit
for the year then ended;

e have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting
Practice, including Financial Reporting Standard 102 “The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in
the UK and Republic of Ireland; and

« have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.

We have audited the financial statements which comprise:

the profit and loss account;

the statement of comprehensive income;
the balance sheet;

the statement of changes in equity;
statement of accounting policies; and
the related notes 1 to 23.

The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United
Kingdom Accounting Standards, including Financial Reporting Standard 102 “The Financial Reporting
Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland” (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting
Practice). :

Basis for opinion

We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) (ISAs (UK)) and
applicable law. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditor's
responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.

We are independent of the company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our
audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the Financial Reporting Council’s (the ‘FRC’s’)
Ethical Standard, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these
requirements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide
a basis for our opinion.

Conclusions relating to going concern

In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the directors’ use of the going concern basis
of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate.

Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified any material uncertainties relating to events
or conditions that, individually or collectively, may cast significant doubt on the company’s ability to
continue as a going concern for a period of at least twelve months from when the financial statements are
authorised for issue.

Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the directors with respect to going concern are described in
the relevant sections of this report.

14

Unipres (UK) Limited

Independent auditor’s report to the members of Unipres (UK) Limited

Other information .

The other information comprises the information included in the annual report, other than the financial
statements and our auditor’s report thereon. The directors are responsible for the other information
contained within the annual report. Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other
information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form
of assurance conclusion thereon.

Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information
is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the course of the audit,
or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent
material misstatements, we are required to determine whether this gives rise to a material misstatement in
the financial statements themselves. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a
material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. ,

We have nothing to report in this regard.

Responsibilities of directors

As explained more fully in the directors’ responsibilities statement, the directors are responsible for the
preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for
such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements
that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.

In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the company’s ability to
continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going
concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the company or to cease
operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.

Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free
from materia! misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor's report that includes our
opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high tevel of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted
in accordance with ISAs (UK) will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can
arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could
reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial
statements.

A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRC’s
website at: www.frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This description forms part of our auditor’s report.

15

Unipres (UK) Limited

Independent auditor’s report to the members of Unipres (UK) Limited

Extent to which the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud

Irregularities, including fraud, are instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations. We design
procedures in line with our responsibilities, outlined above, to detect material misstatements in respect of
irregularities, including fraud. The extent to which our procedures are capable of detecting irregularities,
including fraud is detailed below.

We considered the nature of the company’s industry and its control environment, and reviewed the
company’s documentation of their policies and procedures relating to fraud and compliance with laws and
regulations. We also enquired of management and the directors about their own identification and
assessment of the risks of irregularities, including those that are specific to the company’s business sector

We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework that the company operates in, and
identified the key laws and regulations that:

« hada direct effect on the determination of material amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.
These included the UK Companies Act, pensions legislation and tax legislation; and

¢ donot have a direct effect on the financial statements but compliance with which may be fundamental
to the company’s ability to operate or to avoid a material penalty.

We discussed among the audit engagement team including relevant internal specialists such as valuations,
pensions and IT regarding the opportunities and incentives that may exist within the organisation for fraud
and how and where fraud might occur in the financial statements. As a result of performing the above, we
identified the greatest potential for fraud in the following areas, and our specific procedures performed to
address them are described below:

« Valuation of potential liabilities due back to the principal customer . We evaluated managements’
controls, inspected evidence of negotiations with the principal customer, sought direct confirmtions
from the same, inspected a sample of inputs to the valuation of the liability, and recalculated in order
to form an independent opinion of the exposure;

« Impairment of property plant and equipment which involves the use of assumptions requiring
significant management judgement. We evaluated management’s impairment model by testing the
inputs to the model, considering the sensitivity of the model to changes in underlying assumptions and
working with our valuations specialists to assess the discount rate utilised, and

« Valuation of pension liabilities which also involves the use of assumptions requiring significant
management judgement. We worked with our pensions specialists to test the assumptions and
methodology used by management’s actuarial expert in valuing the pensions liability.

in common with all audits under ISAs (UK), we are also required to perform specific procedures to respond
to the risk of management override. In addressing the risk of fraud through management override of
controls, we tested the appropriateness of journal entries and other adjustments; assessed whether the
judgements made in making accounting estimates are indicative of a potential bias; and evatuated the
business rationale of any significant transactions that are unusual or outside the normal course of business.

16

Unipres (UK) Limited

Independent auditor’s report to the members of Unipres (UK) Limited |

In addition to the above, our procedures to respond to the risks identified included the following:

¢ reviewing financial statement disclosures by testing to supporting documentation to assess compliance
with provisions of relevant laws and regulations described as having a direct effect on the financial
statements;

« performing analytical procedures to identify any unusual or unexpected relationships that may indicate
risks of material misstatement due to fraud;

¢ enquiring of management concerning actual and potential litigation and claims, and instances of non-
compliance with laws and regulations; and

« reading minutes of meetings of those charged with governance.

Report on other legal and regulatory requirements

Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit:

e the information given in the strategic report and the directors’ report for the financial year for which
the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements; and

« the strategic report and the directors’ report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal
requirements.

In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the company and its environment obtained in the course
of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the strategic report or the directors’ report.

Matters on which we are required to report by exception
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report in respect of the following matters if, in our
opinion:

¢ adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not been
received from branches not visited by us; or
the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.

We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.

17

Unipres (UK) Limited

Independent auditor’s report to the members of Unipres (UK) Limited

Use of our report

This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16
of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s
members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To
the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the
company and the company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we
have formed.

fl the

Paul Hewitson FCA (Senior statutory auditor)
For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP
. Statutory Auditor

Newcastle-upon-Tyne, UK.

18 June 2024

18

Unipres (UK) Limited

Profit and loss account
For the year ended 31 December 2023

Turnover
Cost of sales

Gross profit

Distribution costs

Administrative expenses

Other operating income

Operating profit

Other interest receivable and similar

Interest payable and similar expenses

Profit before taxation
Tax on profit

Profit for the financial year

19

Note

wn

on

2023
£000s

177,523

(163,692)

13,831
(3,216)

(14,742)
13,127

8,999

(3,465)

5,534
(793)

4,741

2022
£7000s

173,919

(164,050)

9,869

(2,462)

(14,390)
9,774

2,792

a (563)

1,229

(1,127)

102

Unipres (UK) Limited

Statement of comprehensive income

For the year ended 31 December 2023

Profit for the financial year

Remeasurement of net defined benefit liability

Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income

Other comprehensive expense

Total comprehensive income / (expense)

20

Note

20

2023
£000’s

4,741

(1,244)
311
(933)

3,808

2022
£000’s

102

(10,347)
2,587
(7,760)

(7,658)

Unipres (UK) Limited

Balance sheet
At 31 December 2023

Fixed assets
Tangible assets

Current assets

Stocks

Debtors

Pension deferred tax asset

Cash at bank and in hand

Total current assets

Creditors: Amounts falling due within one year
Net current assets

Total assets less current liabilities

Creditors: Amounts falling due after more than one year
Provisions for liabilities

Net assets
Capital and reserves

Called-up share capital
Profit and loss account

Shareholders’ funds

Note

il

12
13
14

2023
£000’s

95,408

14,682
46,897
11,038

288

72,905

(62,492)

10,412

16
7

105,820

(8,500)

(44,828)

52,492

18

12,000
40,492

52,492

2022
£000’s

111,469

10,821
36,229
11,197

3,995
62,242
(54,279)
7,963
119,432

(25,100)
(45,649)

48,684

12,000
36,684

48,684

The financial statements of Unipres (UK) Limited (registered number 02163867) were approved by the
board of directors and authorised for issue on 29 May 2024. They were signed on its behalf by:

Mitsunobu Yamanaka Director

21

Hideo Kanazawa

Director

Unipres (UK) Limited

Statement of changes in equity
For the year ended 31 December 2023

At I January 2022

Profit for the financial year

Remeasurement of net defined benefit liability

Tax relating to items of other comprehensive income

Total comprehensive expense
Dividends paid on equity shares

At 31 December 2022

Profit for the financial year

Remeasurement of net defined benefit liability

Tax relating to items of other comprehensive income

Total comprehensive income
Dividends paid on equity shares

At 31 December 2023

22

Called-
up share
. capital

£000’s

12,000

12,000

Profit
and loss
account

£000’s

44,342
102
(10,347)
2,587

(7,658)

36,684
4,741
(1,244)

311

3,808

40,492

Total
£000’s

56,342
102

(10,347)
2,587

(7,658)
48,684
4,741

(1,244)
311

3,808

52,492

Unipres (UK) Limited

Notes to the financial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2023

1. Accounting policies

The principal accounting policies are summarised below. They have all been applied consistently
throughout the year and to the preceding year.

a. General information and basis of accounting

Unipres (UK) Limited is a private company limited by shares incorporated in England, the United Kingdom
under the Companies Act. The address of the registered office is given on page 2. The nature of the group’s
operations and its principal activities are set out in the strategic report on pages 3 to 4.

The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, and in accordance with
Financial Reporting Standard 102 (FRS 102) issued by the Financial Reporting Council.

The functional currency of Unipres (UK) Limited is considered to be pounds sterling because that is the
currency of the primary economic environment in which the compaty operates.

Unipres (UK) Limited meets the definition of a qualifying entity under FRS 102 and has therefore taken
advantage of: the disclosure exemptions available to it in respect of its separate financial statements.
Exemptions have been taken in relation to presentation of a cash flow statement, disclosure of related party
transactions with the rest of the Unipres group but note 21 includes this disclosure, financial instruments,
and certain key management personnel compensation disclosures.

b. Going concern

The Directors have reviewed the trading prospects of the company and note that there are a range of factors,
which could influence the profitability of the company in the short and longer term. The directors’ report
further describes the financial position of the company; its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing
facilities; the company’s objectives, policies and instruments and hedging activities; and its exposure to
credit risk and liquidity risk.

The current economic conditions create uncertainties particularly over (a) the availability of bank finance
in the foreseeable future (b) the level of demand for the company’s products; (c) the exchange rate between
pounds sterling, euro and yen and thus the consequence for the cost of the company’s raw materials.

The company has three facilities available to meets its day to day working capita! requirements; the use of
a supply chain finance, a short-term loan facility of £30m available till 20 April 2025 at which point this
will be subject to negotiation, a long-term facility of £25. 1m, agreed in July 2021, that is split 50:50 between
Mizuho Bank and Japan Bank for International Cooperation (JBIC) and in place until June 2025.

In addition to the operating cash requirement, there is a cash need to support planned investment for new
model spending that will generate future profits. The short-term borrowing facility of £30m is in place with
Mizuho Bank until 20 April 2025.

In addition to the funding provided by Mizuho and JBIC the Directors have received confirmation from the
parent undertaking, Unipres Corporation, that further loan financing will be made available as required to
support the operations of the company.

The future demand for the company’s business is subject to increased fluctuation as a result changing
customer behaviour with the switch to electric cars and the delay from 2030 to 2035 for zero emission
vehicles. The company is also exposed to foreign exchange risk as a result of a proportion of transactions
being denominated in Euros and Japanese Yen.

23

Unipres (UK) Limited

Notes to the financial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2023

1, Accounting policies (continued)
b. Going concern (continued)

Having considered the matters set out above, the Directors have identified that the current economic
conditions present uncertainties however, having made appropriate enquiries of the funding providers and
considered the operational projections for the forthcoming 12 months the Directors have a reasonable
expectation that sufficient funds will be available to allow the company to continue to trade and invest in
the normal manner, thus, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial
statements.

The strategic report includes principle risks and uncertainties making specific reference to the global
semiconductor shortage and the energy crisis.

c. Tangible fixed assets

Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost, net of depreciation and any provision for impairment. Depreciation
is provided on all tangible fixed assets, other than freehold land, at rates calculated to write off the cost,
less estimated residual value, of each asset on a straight-line basis over its expected useful life, as follows:

Freehold buildings 35 years / 2.9% per annum
Leasehold land and buildings 35 years / 2.9% per annum/term of lease
Plant and machinery 2 to 20 years / 50% to 5% per annum

Residual value represents the estimated amount which would currently be obtained from disposal of an
asset, after deducting estimated costs of disposal, if the asset were already of the age and in the condition
expected at the end of its useful life.

@, Financial instruments

Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when the company becomes a party to the
contractual provisions of the instrument.

e. Stocks

Stocks are stated at the lower of cost and estimated selling price less costs to sell, which is equivalent to the
net realisable value. Cost includes materials, direct labour and an attributable proportion of manufacturing
overheads based on normal levels of activity. Cost is calculated using the FIFO (first-in, first-out) method.
Provision is made for obsolete, slow-moving or defective items where appropriate.

Sf. Impairment of assets

Assets are assessed for indicators of impairment at each balance sheet date. If there is objective evidence
of impairment, an impairment loss is recognised in profit or loss as described below:

Non-financial assets
An asset is impaired where there is objective evidence that, as a result of one or more events that occurred

after initial recognition, the estimated recoverable value of the asset has been reduced. The recoverable
amount of an asset is the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.

24

Unipres (UK) Limited

Notes to the financial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2023

1. Accounting policies (continued)
Sf. Impairment of assets (continued)

Where indicators exist for a decrease in impairment loss, the prior impairment loss is tested to determine
reversal. An impairment loss is reversed on an individual impaired asset to the extent that the revised
recoverable value does not lead to a revised carrying amount higher than the carrying value had no
impairment been recognised. Where a reversal of impairment occurs in respect of a CGU, the reversal is
applied first to the assets (other than goodwill) of the CGU on a pro-rata basis and then to any goodwill
allocated to that CGU.

Impairment estimates are prepared based on the latest customer information and known market risks.
Following an impairment review sensitivity is tested to understand the potential impact from discount rate
changes, additional investment or operational costs and sales turnover reductions to allow for any
judgements to be made.

Financial assets

For financial assets, the amount of an impairment is the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and
the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the financial asset’s original effective interest
rate.

For financial assets carried at cost less impairment, the impairment loss is the difference between the asset’s
carrying amount and the best estimate of the amount that would be received for the asset if it were to be
sold at the reporting date.

Where indicators exist for a decrease in impairment loss, and the decrease can be related objectively to an
event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the prior impairment loss is tested to determine
reversal. An impairment loss is reversed on an individual impaired financial asset to the extent that the
revised recoverable value does not lead to a revised carrying amount higher than the carrying value had no
impairment been recognised.

g. Taxation

Current tax, including UK corporation tax and foreign tax, is provided at amounts expected to be paid (or
recovered) using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet
date.

The standard rate of tax applied to the reported profit is 23.52% (2022: 19%). The applicable tax rate has
changed following substantive enactment of the Finance Act 2013. The Finance Act 2013 reduced the main
rate of corporation tax to 19% effective from | April 2017 and this rate was used when calculating deferred
tax assets and liabilities at 31 December 2019. Finance No 2 Act which was substantively enacted on 26
October 2015 includes provisions to further reduce the corporation tax rate to 17.00% effective from |
April 2020, the Government enacted legislation during 2020 to reverse the rate change, this is at 25%.
Accordingly deferred tax assets and liabilities have been calculated at the rates which will be in force when
the timing differences are projected to reverse. .

Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the
balance sheet date where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future or
a right to pay less tax in the future have occurred at the balance sheet date. Timing differences are
differences between the company’s taxable profits and its results as stated in the financia! statements that
arise from the inclusion of gains and losses in tax assessments in periods different from those in which they
are recognised in the financial statements.

25

Unipres (UK) Limited

Notes to the financial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2023

1. Accounting policies (continued)

g. Taxation (continued)

Unrelieved tax losses and other deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that, on the basis of all
available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from
which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.

Deferred tax is measured using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by
the balance sheet date that are expected to apply to the reversal of the timing difference. Deferred tax
relating to property, plant and equipment measured using the revaluation model and investment property is
measured using the tax rates and allowances that apply to sale of the asset.

Where items recognised in other comprehensive income or equity are chargeable to or deductible for tax
purposes, the resulting current or deferred tax expense or income is presented in the same component of
comprehensive income or equity as the transaction or other event that resulted in the tax expense or income.

Current tax assets and liabilities are offset only when there is a legally enforceable right to set off the
amounts and the company intends either to settle on a net basis or to realise the asset and settle the liability
simultaneously.

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset only if: a) the company has a legally enforceable right to set off
current tax assets against current tax liabilities; and b) the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities
relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the same taxable entity or different
taxable entities which intend either to settle current tax liabilities and assets on a net basis, or to realise the
assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously, in each future period in which significant amounts of deferred
tax liabilities or assets are expected to be settled or recovered.

h. Turnover

Turnover is stated net of VAT and trade discounts and is recognised when the significant risks and rewards
are considered to have been transferred to the buyer. Turnover from the sale of goods is recognised when
the goods are physically delivered to the customer. Where a contract has only been partially completed at
the balance sheet date the amounts are held on the balance sheet until completion of the related project.
Where payments are received from customers in advance of services provided, the amounts are recorded
as deferred income and included as part of creditors due within one year.

i. Interest revenue

Interest income is recognised when it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the company and
the amount of revenue can be measured reliably. Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to
the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts
estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that asset’s net carrying
amount on initial recognition.

j. Other income

Other income is stated net of VAT and trade discounts and is recognised when the significant risks and
rewards are considered to have been transferred to the buyer. Other income from the sale of scrap is
recognised when the goods are physically collected by the customer. One-off claims are included as other
income.

26

Unipres (UK) Limited

Notes to the financial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2023

1. Accounting policies (continued)
k. Employee benefits

For defined benefit schemes the amounts charged to operating profit are the administrative costs, which are
included as part of administrative costs. The scheme was closed to future accrual from | June 2014. The
net interest cost on the net defined benefit liability is charged to profit or loss and included within finance
costs. Remeasurement comprising actuarial gains and losses and the return on scheme assets (excluding
amounts included in net interest on the net defined benefit liability) are recognised immediately in other
comprehensive income.

Defined benefit schemes are funded, with the assets of the scheme held separately from those of the
company, in separate trustee administered funds. Pension scheme assets are measured at fair value and
liabilities are measured on an actuarial basis using the projected unit credit method. The actuarial valuations
are obtained at least triennially and are updated at each balance sheet date.

For defined contribution schemes the amount charged to the profit and loss account in respect of pension
costs and other retirement benefits is the contributions payable in the year. Differences between
contributions payable in the year and contributions actually paid are shown as either accruals or
prepayments in the balance sheet.

. Foreign currency

Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are reported at
the rates of exchange prevailing at that date.

, Other exchange differences are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they arise except for:

. exchange differences on transactions entered into to hedge certain foreign currency risks (see
above);
. exchange differences arising on gains or losses on non-monetary items which are recognised in other

comprehensive income; and

. in the case of the financial statements, exchange differences on monetary items receivable from or
payable to a foreign operation for which settlement is neither planned nor likely to occur (therefore
forming part of the net investment in the foreign operation), which are recognised in other
comprehensive income and reported under equity.

27

Unipres (UK) Limited

Notes to the financial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2023

1 Accounting policies (continued)
m. Leases
The company as lessee

Assets held under finance leases, hire purchase contracts and other similar arrangements, which confer
rights and obligations similar to those attached to owned assets, are capitalised as tangible fixed assets at
the fair value of the leased asset (or, if lower, the present value of the minimum lease payments as
determined at the inception of the lease) and are depreciated over the shorter of the lease terms and their
useful lives. The capital elements .of future lease obligations are recorded as liabilities, while the interest
elements are charged to the profit and loss account over the period of the leases to produce a constant
periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.

Rentals under operating leases are charged on a straight-line basis over the lease term, even if the payments
are not made on such a basis. Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to sign an operating lease’
are similarly spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term.

n. Government grants

Government grants are recognised based on the accrual model and are measured at the fair value of the
asset received or receivable. Grants are classified as relating either to revenue or to assets. Grants relating
to revenue are recognised in income over the period in which the related costs are recognised. Grants
relating to assets are recognised over the expected useful life of the asset. Where part of a grant relating to
an asset is deferred, it is recognised as deferred income.

0. Provisions

Provisions are recognised when there is a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past
event, it is probable that the company will be required to settle that obligation and a reliable estimate can
be made of the amount of the obligation.

The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the
present obligation at the balance sheet date, taking into account the risks and uncertainties surrounding
the obligation. Where a provision is measured using the cash flows estimated to settle the present
obligation, its carrying amount is the present value of those cash flows (when the effect of the time value
of money is material).

When some or all of the economic benefits required to settle a provision are expected to be recovered
from a third party, a receivable is recognised as an asset if it is virtually certain that reimbursement will
be received and the amount of the receivable can be measured reliably.

28

Unipres (UK) Limited

Notes to the financial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2023

2. Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty

In the application of the company’s accounting policies, which are described in note 1, the directors are
required to make judgements, estimates and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities
that are not readily apparent from other sources. The estimates and associated assumptions are based on
historical experience and other factors that are considered to be relevant. Actual results may differ from
these estimates. There has been no significant judgements in accounting policy.

The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting
estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period,
or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.

The strategic report includes principle risks and uncertainties making specific reference to the global
semiconductor shortage and energy crisis.

3. Turnover

An analysis of turnover by class of business is set out below.

2023 2022
Turnover: £000’s £000’s
Automotive components 175,893 153,033
Automotive tools 1,630 20,886

177,523 173,919

An analysis of turnover by geographical market is set out below.

2023 2022
Turnover: £000’s £000’s
United Kingdom 171,986 163,591
Other European Union 5,537 10,328

177,523 173,919

29

Unipres (UK) Limited

Notes to the financial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2023

4, Other operating income

Sublease rental income
Other income

Other income includes scrap and compensation income.

5. Interest payable and similar expenses

Interest payable and similar charges — bank loans and
overdrafts

Other finance costs — net interest on defined benefit liability
(note 20)

30

2023
£000’s
669
12,458

13,127

2023
£000’s

1,514

1,951

3,465

2022
£000’s
1,421
8,353

9,774

2022
£000’s

852

711

1,563

Unipres (UK) Limited

Notes to the financial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2023

6. Profit before taxation

Loss before taxation is stated after charging/(crediting):

Inventories recognised as expenses

Depreciation of tangible fixed assets (note 11)
Government grants awarded to support investment
Operating lease rentals

Foreign exchange loss / (gain)

(Gain)/loss on disposal of fixed assets

The analysis of the auditor’s remuneration is as follows:

Fees payable to the company’s auditor and its associates
for the audit and other services of the company’s
annual financial statements

The audit of the company

Total audit fees

Audit-related assurance services
Other services

Total non-audit fees

Fees payable to the Company's auditor and its associates in
respect of associated pension schemes :

Total fees

No services were provided pursuant to contingent fee arrangements.

3t

2023
£000’s
102,367
20,240
(146)
445
628
(60)

2023
£000’s

292

292

21

313

2022
£000’s

109,580
18,686
(228)
396
1,132
(136)

2022
£000’s

276

276

21

297

Unipres (UK) Limited

Notes to the financial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2023

7. Staff numbers and costs

The average monthly number of employees (including executive directors) was:

2023 2022
Number Number
Direct Production 522 503
Semi-Direct Production 308 268
Indirect Production 32 27
Administration and Management 52 55
913 853

Their aggregate remuneration comprised:
, 2023 2022
£000’s £000’s
Wages and salaries 30,643 26,950
Social security costs 2,270 2,242
Other pension costs (see note 20) 2,394 2,381

35,305 31,572 -

‘Other pension costs’ includes only those items included within operating costs. Items reported elsewhere
have been excluded.

32

Unipres (UK) Limited

Notes to the financial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2023

8. Directors’ remuneration and transactions
2023 2022
£000’s £000’s
Directors’ remuneration
Emoluments 349 347
Company contributions to money purchase pension schemes 17 18
Accrual for gratuity at retirement 8 37

374 402

Number Number
The number of directors who:

Are members of a money purchase pension scheme 3 2
2023 2022
£000’s £000’s

Remuneration of the highest paid director:
Emoluments 189 186
Company contributions to money purchase pension schemes - -

189° 186

Directors’ advances, credits and guarantees

The directors have earned £8,375 in the year (£108,000 cumulatively) for their services which is payable
when they leave the company. ,

Details of transactions with directors during the year are disclosed in note 21.

33

Unipres (UK) Limited

Notes to the financial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2023

9. Tax on profit on ordinary activities

The tax charge comprises:

2023 2022
£000’s £000’s
Current tax on profit on ordinary activities
UK corporation tax 390 -
Adjustments in respect of prior years
UK corporation tax (68) -
Total current tax 322 -
Deferred tax
Origination and reversal of timing differences 442 1,127
Effect of changes in tax rates 28 -
Total deferred tax 470 1,127
Total tax on profit on ordinary activities 793 1,127

The standard rate of tax applied to the reported profit on ordinary activities is 23.52% (2022: 19%). A rate
of 25% has been applied to the company’s deferred tax balance at the balance sheet date, which is the tax
rate that took effect from | April 2023.

34

Unipres (UK) Limited

Notes to the financial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2023

9. Tax on profit on ordinary activities (continued)

The differences between the total tax charge shown above and the amount calculated by applying the
standard rate of UK corporation tax to the profit before tax is as follows:

2023 2022
£000’s £000’s

Company profit on ordinary activities before tax 5,534 1,229

Tax on Company profit on ordinary activities at standard UK

corporation tax rate of 23.52% (2022: 19%) 1,302. 234
Effects of:
- Expenses not deductible 216 173
- R&D credit previously taxed (21) (22)
- Super deduction on eligible capital expenditure - -
- Deferred tax not recognised on losses (664) 406
- Rate differential on deferred tax 28 100
- Tax under / (Over) provided in previous years (68) 236
Company total tax charge for period 793 ~ 1,127

10. Dividends on equity shares

2023 2022
£000’s £000’s
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the period:

Proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2023 of Op
(2022: Op) per ordinary share - -

Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2022 of Op
(2021: Op) per ordinary share - -

35

Unipres (UK) Limited

Notes to the financial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2023

11, Tangible fixed assets

Cost or valuation
At | January 2023
Additions
Disposals
Transfers

At 31 December 2023

Depreciation

At | January 2023
Charge for the year
Disposals
Impairment losses

“At31 December 2023

Net book value
At 31 December 2023

At 31 December 2022

Leased assets included above:

Net book value
At 31 December 2023

At 31 December 2022

Payments on
account and

36

Land and buildings assets in the
Short Plant and course of
Freehold Leasehold machinery construction Total
£000’s £000’s £000’s £000°s £000’s
49,219 15,506 198,772 877 264,373
32 - 1,898 2,248 4,178
. - (58) - (58)
- - 947 (947) -
49,251 15,506 201,559 2,178 268,494
14,320 14,639 123,945 - 152,904
1,586 249 18,405 - 20,240
- - (58) - 58)
15,906 14,888 142,292 - 173,086
33,344 618 59,268 2,178 95,408
34,899 867 74,826 877 111,469
- 618 ‘ - 618
- 867 - - 867

Unipres (UK) Limited

Notes to the financial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2023

12. Stocks

Raw materials and consumables
Work in progress

Finished goods and goods for resale
Tools

13. Debtors - amounts falling due within one year

Trade debtors

Amounts owed by Group undertakings
Corporation tax

Other debtors

‘Amounts owed by Group undertakings’ are payable on demand and are not subject to an interest charge.

‘14. Pension deferred tax asset

Pension deferred tax asset

2023
£000’s

6,156
2,064

975
5,487

14,682

2023 .

£000’s

44,213
701
NT

1,267

46,897

2023
£000’s

11,038

11,038

For the deferred tax on the defined benefit pension £0 is expected to reverse within 12 months.

15. Creditors — amounts falling due within one year

Trade creditors

Amounts owed to Group undertakings
Other taxation and social security
Other creditors

Bank loan

Accruals and deferred income

‘Amounts owed by Group undertakings’ are payable on demand and are not subject to an interest charge.

37

2023
£000’s

15,080
782
2,709
1,869
24,600
17,452

62,492

2022
£000’s

8,293
1,723
589
217

10,821

2022
£000’s

20,680
5,133
926
9,491

36,229

2022
£000’s

11,197

11,197

2022
£000’s

15,801
552
1,602
195
16,600
19,529

$4,279

Unipres (UK) Limited

Notes to the financial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2023

16. Creditors — amounts falling due after more than one year

2023 2022
£000’s £000’s
Bank loans 8,500 25,100

8,500 25,100

A long-term loan of £25.1m (£16.6m repayable within 12 months during 2024) that is split 50:50 between
Mizuho bank and Japan Bank for International Cooperation (JBIC), agreed in July 2021, until June 2025.
The interest rate for the JBIC proportion of the loan is fixed for the full term of the loan, while the Mizuho
proportion is variable and will change with market conditions every 6 months.

17. Provisions for liabilities

Deferred
taxation Other Total
£000’s £000’s £000’s
At | January 2023 - 861 861
Charged to profit and loss account - 8 8
Utilisation of provision : (194) (194)
At 31 December 2023 - 675 675
Provision for net defined benefit scheme deficit 44,153
Total 44,828
Deferred tax
Deferred tax is provided as follows:
2023 2022
£000’s £000’s
Accelerated capital allowances 2,619 4,359
Other timing differences (21) 4
Losses (2,598) (4,363)

Provision for deferred tax

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset only where the Company has a legally enforceable right to do
so and where the assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on the
same taxable entity or another entity within the group.

Other includes Directors’ advances, credits and guarantees earned for their services which is payable when
they leave the company.

Defined benefit scheme liability
The provision for the defined benefit scheme liability is discussed in greater detail in note 20.

38

Unipres (UK) Limited

Notes to the financial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2023

18. | Called-up share capital and reserves

2023 2022
£000’s £000’s

Allotted, called-up and fully-paid
12,000,000 ordinary shares of £1 each . 12,000 12,000
12,000 12,000

The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income.

The profit and loss reserve represents cumulative profits or losses, net of dividends paid and other
adjustments.

19. Financial commitments

Capital commitments are as follows:

2023 2022 ©
£000’s £000’s
Contracted for but not provided for
- Buildings - -
- Plant & machinery 1,711 557
- Other - -
1,711 557

Total future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows:

2023 2022
£000’s £000’s

Company
- within one year 344 410
- between one and five years 640 819
- after five years 1,420 1,520

2,404 2,749

39

Unipres (UK) Limited

Notes to the financial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2023

20. Employee benefits
Defined contribution schemes

The Company operates defined contribution retirement benefit schemes for all its qualifying employees.
The total expense charged to profit or loss in the period ended 31 December 2023 was £2,393,570 (2022:
£2,381,077).

Defined benefit schemes

The Unipres (UK) Limited Pension and Life Assurance Scheme (the scheme) is a defined benefit pension
scheme, which was closed to new entrants with effect from 1 January 2008, and closed to future accrual
with effect from 1 June 2014.

The most recent actuarial valuations of scheme assets and the present value of the defined benefit obligation
were carried out at 31 December 2019, updated to 31 December 2023 by a Fellow of the Institute and
Faculty of Actuaries employed at Broadstone. The present value of the defined benefit obligation is
measured using the projected unit credit method.

Valuation at

2023 2022
Key assumptions used:
Discount rate 4.40% 4.55%
Future pension increases 2.35% 2.35%
Inflation (CPI) 2.35% 2.35%

Mortality assumptions:

Investigations have been carried out within the past three years into the mortality experience of the
Company’s defined benefit schemes. These investigations concluded that the current mortality assumptions
include sufficient allowance for future improvements in mortality rates. The assumed life expectations on
retirement at age 65 are:

Valuation at

2023 2022
years years
Retiring today:
Males 20.2 20.7
Females 23.7 23.1
Retiring in 20 years:
Males 21.1 21.7

Females 24.8 24.3

40

Unipres (UK) Limited

Notes to the financial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2023

20. Employee benefits (continued)
Amounts recognised in the profit and loss account in respect of these defined benefit schemes are as follows:

2023 2022
£000’s £000’s

Past service cost - -
Net interest cost 1,951 71h
Plan introductions, changes, curtailments and settlements - -
Administrative expenses a -

1,951 va)
Recognised in other comprehensive income 1,244 10,347

Total cost / (gain) relating to defined benefit scheme 3,195 11,058

The amount included in the balance sheet arising from the Company’s obligations in respect of its defined
benefit retirement benefit schemes is as follows. This is presented on the balance sheet gross:

2023 2022
£000’s £000’s
Present value of defined benefit obligations (94,343) (92,365)
Fair value of scheme assets 50,190 47,577
Net liability recognised in the balance sheet (44,153) (44,788)
The deferred tax asset from the net liability is disclosed in note 14.
Movements in the present value of defined benefit obligations were as follows:
2023 2022
£000’s £000’s
At | January 92,365 141,809
Past service cost - -
Interest cost 4,148 2,823
Actuarial losses / (gains) 225 (50,980)
Benefits paid (2,395) (1,287)
Losses/(gains) on curtailments - -
At 31 December 94,343 92,365

41

Unipres (UK) Limited

Notes to the financial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2023

20. Employee benefit (continued)

Movements in the fair value of scheme-assets were as follows:

2023 2022
£000’s £000’s
At I January 47,577 104,401
Interest income 2,197 2,112
Return on plan assets (excluding amounts included in net
interest cost) (1,019) (61,327)
Contributions from the employer 3,830 3,678
Benefits paid (2,395) (1,287)
Administration expenses paid - , -
At 31 December 50,190 47,577
The analysis of the scheme assets at the balance sheet date was as follows:
2023 2023 2022 2022
£000’s % £000’s %
Equity instruments 2,449 4.9% 3,879 8.2%
Debt instruments 31,186 62.1% 26,866 56.5%
Property 5,644 11.2% 6,363 13.4%
Diversified growth funds 10,348 20.6% 9,284 19.5%
Other assets 563 1.1% 1,185 2.5%

Total scheme assets 50,190 100.0% 47,577 100.0%

21. Related party transactions
Other related party transactions

The total remuneration for key management personnel for the year totalled £374,447 (2022: £401,667),
there are no other key personnel other than the Directors.

22. Ultimate Parent Company

The immediate and ultimate parent company is Unipres Corporation, Sun Hamada Bldg. SF, 1-19-20 Shin-
Yokohama, Kohoku-ku, Yokohama City, Kanagawa Pref., 222-0033 Japan, incorporated in Japan. Copies
of the annual report of Unipres Corporation, which includes the financial statements of Unipres (UK)
Limited, can be obtained by application to the company secretary of Unipres (UK) Limited at the registered
address.

42

Unipres (UK) Limited

Notes to the financial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2023

23. Subsequent events

Utilities and inflation

Utilities cost have increased significantly since April 2022, although UK Government intervention between
October 2022 and March 2023 has helped mitigate part of the on cost. The market remains volatile with
reductions projected, but still significantly higher than two years ago, which is a consequence of the Ukraine
war and global factors. The company is investigating ways to mitigate these additional costs.

43

