Registered number: 00576777

Unipart Group Limited

Annual Report and Financial Statements

For the Year Ended 31 December 2024

*AE26YX4B*
A14 4

09/05/2025 #3.
COMPANIES HOUSE


Unipart Group Limited

Company Information

Directors

Company secretary

Registered number

Registered office

Independent auditors

DP Leigh
AR Leung
C J Weldon

BL Thornton

00576777

Unipart House
Garsington Road
Cowley

Oxford

OX4 2PG

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
One Chamberlain Square

Birmingham

B3 3AX

Unipart Group Limited

Contents

Page(s)
Strategic Report 1-3
Corporate Governance Statement 4-6
Directors' Report 7-9
Independent Auditors' Report 10-13
Consolidated Profit and Loss Account 14
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive income 15
Consolidated Balance Sheet 16
Company Balance Sheet 17
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 18
Company Statement of Changes in Equity 19
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 20
Notes to the Financial Statements 21-52

Unipart Group Limited

Strategic Report
For the Year Ended 31 December 2024

The directors present their strategic report on the Company for the year ended 31 December 2024.
Business review and future developments

Unipart Group Limited (the "Company") is engaged in providing business services in logistics and distribution
management.

The directors are satisfied with the underlying trading performance and position of the Company for the
reporting period and anticipate similar levels of activity in the coming financial year. The directors have
undertaken a review of the potential impacts of different financial resilience tests, further details of which are
reported in the Directors’ Report, and the directors are confident that they have a robust business plan that can
withstand any reasonably foreseeable outcome.

Unipart Group Limited, its subsidiaries, joint ventures and associated undertakings (the "Group") is a wholly
owned member of the Unipart Group of Companies Limited, its subsidiaries, joint ventures and associated
undertakings (the "Ultimate Group” or "Unipart"). The .strategic objectives of the Company and Group are
aligned with those of the Ultimate Group. Further details on the strategy and performance of the Ultimate
Group, including key performance indicators, can be found in the Strategic Report in the 2024 Annual Report
of Unipart Group of Companies Limited, which does not form part of this report.

Principal risks and uncertainties

From the perspective of the Company and Group, the principal risks and uncertainties are integrated within the
principal risks of the Ultimate Group and are not managed separately. Accordingly, the principal risks and
uncertainties of the Ultimate Group, which included those of the Company and Group, are discussed in the
Strategic Report in the 2024 Annual Report of Unipart Group of Companies Limited, which does not form part
of this report.

Stakeholder engagement

The directors set out their section 172(1) statement in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 in relation to
stakeholder engagement for the year ended 31 December 2024.

The Board recognises that the long-term success of both the Group and the Ultimate Group is strongly
correlated to a positive interaction with all of its stakeholders. Effective engagement allows the Board to
understand relevant stakeholder views on material issues which may impact the business and helps to inform
the Board’s decision making. Stakeholder engagement is ultimately managed and owned by the directors of
the Ultimate Group, but takes place at all levels within the organisation.

At the heart of our engagement is The Unipart Way, our Group philosophy, which is led from the boardroom.
Principle 4 of The Unipart Way, ‘We manage with a tong term view’, guides the Board's thinking, encouraging
the adoption of strategic initiatives, rather than short term gains. This includes the directors’ engagement with
each of its stakeholders.

The Ultimate Group's latest Corporate Responsibility Strategy is published on our website and sets out how
the Group plans to engage with it customers, suppliers, people and communities in a mutually sustainable
manner. We always aim to act fairly across all our stakeholders and create a longstanding reputation as a
Group where people want to work, customers want to give us their business and suppliers want to provide us
their services, whilst at the same time ensuring the Group maintains the highest levels of ethical standards and
support for its community and environment.

Unipart Group Limited

Strategic Report
For the Year Ended 31 December 2024

Stakeholder engagement (continued)

This report identifies some of our key stakeholders and explains how our businesses interact with them in
order to promote the success of the Group and Ultimate Group for the stakeholders as a whole.

Employees

Employees are critical to the delivery of our strategy and the future growth of the business. Through The
Unipart Way, leaders empower each colleague throughout the business, encouraging each to solve problems
at his or her own level. Through a wide range of training and development programmes, such as the Gate to
Great journeys, we are able to develop our people so we can promote from within and provide long-term and
fulfilling careers across the Group and Ultimate Group.

The Mark In Action award ceremonies are held six times each year and celebrate our employees who have
demonstrated outstanding customer service.

The directors also engage with employees in several formal and informal ways, including Management Brief
newsletters and the bi-annual Leadership Conference led by the Group Chief Executive Officer. In addition, the
Directors meet sector specific operating committees on a regular basis, and will frequently take the opportunity
to engage with the employees on site visits. .

Employee engagement is a key metric for the Group, and the results from the annual employee engagement
survey are fed back to the Executive Leadership Team and the Board of the Ultimate Group. The directors
have supported the group-wide employee wellbeing strategy, which amongst other features provides free
support to employees for personal health, financial and counselling matters through Telus.

Customers

The Board of Directors support our business by engaging with our future, new and existing customers. We
strive to develop enduring partnerships with our customers and drive continuous improvement and innovation
into our operations to drive long-term relationships across each of our businesses. To achieve this, the
Directors take time to understand the real and perceived needs of our customers, which they do through
actively maintaining close relationships and engaging in regular customer surveys and feedback programmes.
Continuous improvement is at the heart of our operations, driving out waste and improving efficiencies for our
customers.

Suppliers

The core of the Group and Ultimate Group's business is managing complex supply chain solutions for our
customers and therefore it is essential to work with our suppliers in an ethical manner. We engage closely with
suppliers because we rely on them to provide us with products and services which meet our stringent quality
and performance requirements, which in turn allows us to fulfil our commitments to our customers. This
engagement will be at an operational level on a day-to-day basis to ensure that our expectations are met from
a quality and delivery perspective, or at director level in relation for more strategic discussions. The Group and
Ultimate Group has instilled a culture of ensuring we pay suppliers in line with commercially agreed payment
terms.

Long-term agreements are entered into with key suppliers where appropriate, and performance targets are
regularly agreed with suppliers to align with our drive for continuous improvement. We have strong codes of
conduct in relation to Anti-Bribery and Corruption, Competition Law, Human Trafficking and Modern Slavery
and Criminal Finances legislation, this zero-tolerance culture being driven by the Board of Directors.


Unipart Group Limited

Strategic Report
For the Year Ended 31 December 2024

Shareholders and Pension Trustees

The Ultimate Group's largest shareholder is UGC Pension Funding LP, a Limited Partnership whose
shareholdings are beneficially held on behalf of the Group's main defined benefit pension schemes. As such,
the Directors are actively involved in Pension Trustee meetings, with a number holding positions as Employer
Nominated Trustees on the independent Trustee Boards. In addition, the Group Chief Financial Officer will
regularly update the Trustee Boards on the Ultimate Group's performance and future projections.

A large proportion of the remaining shareholders of the Ultimate Group are existing, former or retired
employees who receive updates from the directors through the employee communications referred to earlier.
The key formal interaction with shareholders is through this report, the Annual Report & Accounts, which is
distributed to all shareholders. Any questions are invited to be made to the Company Secretary of Unipart
Group of Companies Limited.

Our community and the environment

We recognise that each of our businesses has an important role to play in its local community. We also
acknowledge the impact of our business on the wider society. The Ultimate Group, led by the directors, has
been actively engaged with its community and publishes its Corporate Responsibility Statement on the
website. The Board is very proud of its success in achieving a variety of community and environmental
awards, some of which are referred to in the Operating Review in the 2024 Annual Report of Unipart Group of
Companies Limited, but we continue to seek out new ways to engage with our local communities and improve
our environmental credentials. The Ultimate Group is committed to reducing its carbon footprint and is signed
up to the UN Race to Zero Campaign and has committed to reaching net carbon zero by 2040. These matters
are regularly discussed by the directors at the Ultimate Group Board and Executive Leadership Team
meetings. During 2023, Unipart launched its “Sustainability The Unipart Way” report
(www.unipart.com/responsiblebusiness), which sets out in more detail our commitments and plans for
achieving these targets.

Regulatory bodies

The Group and Ultimate Group aims to maintain the highest standards of conduct with each of the regulatory
bodies with which it engages. It does not adopt aggressive policies aimed to maximise short term returns,
instead the Directors support a principled and moral way of doing business. We publish a number of our
policies on our website including our zero tolerance to unethical matters such as bribery and corruption, along
with maintaining transparent and fair policies with each of our stakeholders, such as those reported in the
Group Tax Strategy and Gender Pay Report. The Ultimate Group is proud of its low risk status with HMRC,
demonstrating its transparent approach to tax matters. We maintain a regular dialogue with government
bodies and regulators, and actively participate in various industry working groups and trade representative
bodies. This enables us to engage in discussions regarding future policy development and planned regulatory
changes, and to identify potential opportunities and risks for the business.

This report was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf.

C J Weldon
Director
27 March 2025


Unipart Group Limited

Corporate Governance Statement
For the Year Ended 31 December 2024

For the year ended 31 December 2024, our governance framework is the structure through which we manage
the Ultimate Group. It facilitates responsive and effective decision-making, ensuring the Board and its
Committees, the Executive Leadership Team and senior management are able to collaborate proactively,
consider issues and respond. We continue to monitor and develop the framework to ensure it meets the needs
of our business.

Applying the Wates Principles

As a private business, Unipart is not required to follow the UK Corporate Governance Code 2018. It is,
however, committed to a high standard of governance and therefore voluntarily observes those elements of
governance and disclosure that are appropriate and add value both to the Group and its stakeholders.

The Board of the Ultimate Group continues to adopt and apply many of the Wates Corporate Governance
Principles for Large Private Companies (Wates Principles) and this section outlines how the Company has
incorporated these Principles into its business operations. The following provides details of how Unipart applies
the Wates Principles and references other parts of this Annual Report which provide further information.

Set out below are how these 6 principles have been applied over the financial year.

Principle 1 — Purpose and Leadership
An effective board develops and promotes the purpose of a company, and ensures that its values, strategy
and culture align with that purpose.

Purpose

In 2023, Unipart launched The Unipart Way Forward strategy, our strategy for achieving sustainable, scalable
growth with new and existing customers, leveraging and growing our portfolio of products, services and
solutions to deliver on our customer promise and which fosters effective stakeholder relationships aligned to
the Company's purpose.

Values and culture

Our culture is dependent on the skills and behaviour of our people who identify opportunities daily to learn,
develop and grow, to continuously improve and to ‘go the extra mile’ for our customers. Our leadership teams
continuously monitor our culture using a range of measures to ensure the desired values, attitudes and
behaviour penetrate every aspect of our business.

Strategy

The Executive Leadership Team is responsible for developing and executing strategy. Our Policy Deployment
Matrix (PDM) process aligns operational activities to our strategic intent and is cascaded to businesses,
functions, departments and teams.

Principle 2 —- Board composition

The Ultimate Groups effective board composition requires an effective chair and a balance of skills,
backgrounds, experience and knowledge, with individual directors having sufficient capacity to make a
valuable contribution. The size of a board should be guided by the scale and complexity of the Company.

The Board of the Ultimate Group composition is subject to continuous review and went through significant
change during the financial year. As at the date of this Annual Report, the Board of the Ultimate Group
believes that its composition — its size, mix of expertise and balance of executive and non-executive directors —
is appropriate and that it has a suitable balance of skills, backgrounds, experience and knowledge, with
individual directors having sufficient capacity to make a valuable contribution.

Unipart Group Limited

Corporate Governance Statement
For the Year Ended 31 December 2024

Principle 2 - Board Composition (continued)

The Board of the Ultimate Group's independent non-executive directors bring a wealth of experience in world-
class manufacturing, engineering and digital technologies as well as an external perspective which informs the
valuable challenge and guidance they provide to the Board of the Ultimate Group.

Effectiveness

All directors have access to the advice and services of the Ultimate Group Company Secretary and may take
independent professional advice. Directors keep their skills and knowledge of Unipart up to date by meeting
with senior management, visiting operations and attending seminars and training courses. The Chairman is
responsible for keeping the effectiveness of the Board of the Ultimate Group under review and ensuring
appropriate succession plans are in place.

Principle 3 — Director Responsibilities

The Board of the Ultimate Group and individual directors should have a clear understanding of their
accountability and responsibilities. The Ultimate Group Board’s policies and procedures should support
effective decision-making and independent challenge.

Accountabilit
Our governance and risk management frameworks set out clearly-defined roles and responsibilities, frequency
. and methods of review and reporting, decision making and communication.

All directors have a clear understanding of the role of the Board of the Ultimate Group and their statutory
duties. The Company's articles of association include provisions in respect of actual or potential conflicts of
interests; these are supported by annual conflicts of interest declarations which are completed by directors and
members of the wider leadership team.

Integrity of information

The Board of the Ultimate Group receives regular and timely information on all key aspects of the business
including financial performance, strategic and operational matters, health and safety, environmental matters,
stakeholder engagement and risk management. Financial information is collated from the Group's finance
systems. Our auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, conduct an external audit on the Group's financial
information annually. Board papers are distributed in advance of meetings and include an appropriate level of
information to allow directors to understand and assess the issues at hand.

Principle 4 — Opportunity and Risk
A board should promote the long-term sustainable success of the company by identifying opportunities to
create and preserve value, and establishing oversight for the identification and mitigation of risks.

Opportunity

In pursuit of our customer promise, we strive to seek out opportunities whilst mitigating risk. Long-term
strategic opportunities are highlighted through the annual strategic planning process, the outturn of which is
presented to the Board of the Ultimate Group. On a daily basis, our people are encouraged to eliminate waste
and drive continuous improvement and innovation to deliver increased value to both our customers and

Risk

The Board of the Ultimate Group has overall responsibility for managing risk and ensuring an effective risk
management process is in place. It monitors the risk environment and reviews the principal risks, mitigations
and overall risk appetite. This is supported by the Audit and Risk Committee, chaired by an independent Non-
executive Director. The Executive Leadership Team, through the Group Risk Committee, ensures inherent and
emerging risks are identified and managed appropriately, and that risk registers are updated to reflect current
assessments.

a

Unipart Group Limited

Corporate Governance Statement
For the Year Ended 31 December 2024

Principle 5 — Remuneration
A board of the Ultimate Group should promote executive remuneration structures aligned to the long-term
sustainable success of a company, taking into account pay and conditions elsewhere in the Company.

The Remuneration Committee has defined terms of reference.

The Committee reviews the remuneration structure regularly to ensure the framework supports Unipart’s
strategic ambitions and rewards executive directors fairly for the contribution they make to the business. It
takes advice on legislative requirements, market best practice and remuneration benchmarking.

The Committee considers the pay and employment conditions of colleagues across the business when setting
the remuneration policy for executive directors to ensure these are aligned where appropriate. We regularly
monitor pay trends across all levels of the business and salary increases for executive directors will normally
be in line with those of the wider workforce in percentage terms.

Principle 6 - Stakeholder Relationships and Engagement

Directors should foster effective stakeholder relationships aligned to the company’s purpose. The board is
responsible for overseeing meaningful engagement with stakeholders, including the workforce, and having
regard to their views when taking decisions.

Central to our strategic framework are our high-level aspirations for the future of Unipart for all our stakeholder
groups. Our strategic priorities and values are how we deliver our vision. They reflect a simple business logic:
engaged people deliver excellent service, which in turn delivers sustainable growth and financial returns. Our
key stakeholders, and the way in which we engage with them, are set out in our section 172(1) statement.


Unipart Group Limited

Directors’ Report
For the Year Ended 31 December 2024

The directors of the Company present their report and the audited consolidated financial statements for the
year ended 31 December 2024.

Results for the year
The results for the year are set out in the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account and Consolidated Statement of
Comprehensive Income on pages 14 to 15.

The Company has not paid, nor is it proposing to pay, any dividends in respect of the financial year ended 31
December 2024 (2023: Enil).

Directors and directors' interests
The directors who served during the year and up to the date of signing the financial statements, unless
otherwise stated, were:

DP Leigh

AR Leung

JM Neill (resigned 31 August 2024) :
! WD Truesdale (resigned 21 January 2025)
Cc J Weldon

There was no contract existing during the year or at the date of approval of the financial statements in which
any director of the Company had a material interest; however, during the year and at the date of approval of the
financial statements, a qualifying third party indemnity from the Company was available to the directors against
liabilities incurred by them in defending proceedings against them in relation to the affairs of the Company. The
indemnity is subject to the provisions of the Companies Act and is set out in the Articles of Association.

Future developments
A review of the business and an indication of likely future developments are included in the Strategic Report.

Financial risk management

The Group's operations expose it to a variety of financial risks that include the effect of changes in price risk,
credit risk, liquidity risk, interest rate risk, foreign exchange risk and cash flow risk. The financial risks of the
Company and Group are managed centrally by the Ultimate Group's treasury department. The Group reviews
its position and enters into interest rate and foreign exchange contracts to reduce the level of risk that it faces
where deemed necessary. These policies are approved by the Board. The exposure of the Ultimate Group,
which includes that of the Company and Group, is discussed in the Strategic Report in the 2024 Annual Report
of Unipart Group of Companies Limited, which does not form part of this report. Details of the Group's
borrowings and the Group's financial instruments can be found in note 20 and note 22 to the financial
statements respectively.

Employees

The Group continues to involve employees in the decision-making process and communicates with all staff on
various areas, including the economic and financial factors affecting the Group, via regular briefings, on-site
training and employee forums. Staff involvement in the Group’s performance is encouraged through employee
bonus and share schemes, and this involvement extends to the board of trustees of the main pension scheme,
on which there are employee representatives. The Group's aim for all members of staff and applicants for
employment is to fit the qualifications, aptitude and ability of each individual to the appropriate job, and provide
equality of opportunity regardless of sex, sexual orientation, nationality, religion or ethnic origin or any other
characteristic. The Group does all that is practicable to meet its responsibility towards the employment and
training of disabled people.

Unipart Group Limited

Directors’ Report
For the Year Ended 31 December 2024

Employees (continued)

Where an employee becomes disabled, every effort is made to provide continuity of employment in the same
job or a suitable alternative. The same principles are applied when an employee is affected by long-term illness,
where the Group has a strong track record of supporting and rehabilitating our employees back to work. The
Group applies an increased focus on ‘prevention’ through the introduction of Unipart Lifeworks, our Employee
Health and Wellbeing Programme.

Corporate Responsibility

The Group is fully committed to forming a culture based in responsible business. Details are described in the
Strategic Report in the 2024 Annual Report of Unipart Group of Companies Limited. Details of how the
directors have engaged with suppliers, customers and other business relationships are disclosed in the
Corporate Governance Statement.

Streamlined Energy and Carbon Reporting (SECR)
The Group's SECR details are described inthe 2024 Annual Report of Uniparty Group of Companies Limited.

Going concern

The Board has a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational
existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason, the directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in
preparing the financial statements, which are shown on pages 14-52.

Global markets have experienced significant levels of uncertainty in the last few years, which has affected most
sectors and businesses. After careful consideration of market conditions throughout the year, the key financial
risk that the directors have identified for the next financial year is that projected growth is not achieved,
resulting in lower profits and cash flows than anticipated.

The Group’s banking headroom position and associated covenants have been stress tested for various
scenarios relating to the key risks, looking in particular at the impact of:

4. Adverse new and current business performance resulting in reduced profits of around 40% compared with
2024; and
2. Adverse new and current business performance resulting in reduced profits of around 50% compared with
# 2024.

These assessments have been reviewed and discussed by the Board of Directors, with consideration given to
sensible mitigating actions that are readily available to the companies within the Group. The directors have
considered the commercial mechanisms in place with customers and suppliers, along with the ability, if
required, for the business to scale down costs according to the reduced demand. Being abie to efficiently
manage costs in line with fluctuating volumes is a fundamental part of the offering the Group already provides
to many of its customers. Furthermore, we have been able to redeploy colleagues from one site to another in
line with volume demand due to the consistent use of The Unipart Way across each of our operations.

The Company and Group will continue to monitor and respond to market conditions in the normal course of
business and with a forward-looking approach to ensure any issues are identified and addressed at the earliest
opportunity. .

Unipart Group Limited

Directors' Report
For the Year Ended 31 December 2024

Independent auditors
The auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, have indicated their willingness to continue in office.

Statement of directors’ responsibilities in respect of the financial statements

The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with
applicable law and regulation.

Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under that law the
directors have prepared the Group and Company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 102 “The
Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland”, and applicable law). Under
Company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a
true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and parent Company and of the profit or loss of the Group
and parent Company for that period. In preparing the financial statements, the directors are required to:

- select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;

- state whether applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 102, have been followed,
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements;

- make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and

- prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the
Group and parent Company will continue in business.

The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain
the Group and parent Company's transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial
position of the Group and parent Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with
the Companies Act 2006.

The directors are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and parent Company and hence for
taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.

Directors’ confirmations
In the case of each director in office at the date the Directors’ Report is approved:

- so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Group and Company’s
auditors are unaware; and

- they have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a director in order to make themselves
aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Group and Company’s auditors are aware
of that information.

This report was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf.

Cc J Weldon
Director

27 March 2025
Registered number: 00576777

Unipart Group Limited

Independent Auditors’ Report to the Members of Unipart Group Limited
For the Year Ended 31 December 2024

Report on the audit of the financial statements

Opinion 7.
In our opinion, Unipart Group Limited’s group financial statements and company financial statements (the
“financial statements’):

e give a true and fair view of the state of the group's and of the company’s affairs as at 31 December 2024
and of the group’s profit and the group’s cash flows for the year then ended;

e have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting
Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 102 “The Financial Reporting
Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland”, and applicable law); and

¢ have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.

We have audited the financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Financial Statements
(the “Annual Report”), which comprise: the Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets as at
31 December 2024; the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account and Consolidated Statement of
Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, and the Consolidated and Company
Statements of Changes in Equity for the year then ended; and the notes to the financial statements, which
include a description of the significant accounting policies.

Basis for opinion

We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) ("ISAs (UK)”) and
applicable law. Our responsibilities under ISAs (UK) are further described in the Auditors’ responsibilities
for the audit of the financial statements section of our report. We believe that the audit evidence we have
obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.

Independence

We remained independent of the group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to
our audit of the financial statements in the UK, which includes the FRC’s Ethical Standard, as applicable
to other entities of public interest, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with
these requirements.

To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit services prohibited by the FRC’s Ethical
Standard were not provided.

Other than those disclosed in note 6, we have provided no non-audit services to the company in the period
under audit.

Conclusions relating to going concern
Our evaluation of the directors’ assessment of the group's and the company’s ability to continue to adopt
the going concern basis of accounting included:

e Review and validation of actual performance during 2024 versus stress test scenarios applied for the
31 December 2023 going concern assessment;

e Review of management's base case trading and cash flow projections for reasonableness including
model mechanics and mathematical accuracy of the calculations;
Consideration of the reasonableness of budget assumptions;
Review and challenge management on stress test scenarios to be applied to 2025 forecasts;
Review of logic and calcutations underpinning the stress tests to assess the reasonableness of facilities
cashflow and covenant headroom;
Review of FY25 year to date financial performance; and
Review of company and group going concern disclosures.

10

Unipart Group Limited

Independent Auditors’ Report to the Members of Unipart Group Limited
For the Year Ended 31 December 2024 (continued)

Conclusions relating to going concern (continued)

Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified any material uncertainties relating to events
or conditions that, individually or collectively, may cast significant doubt on the group's and the company’s
ability to continue as a going concern for a period of at least twelve months from when the financial
statements are authorised for issue.

In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the directors’ use of the going concern basis
of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate.

However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this conclusion is not a guarantee
as to the group's and the company's ability to continue as a going concern.

Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the directors with respect to going concern are described in
the relevant sections of this report.

Reporting on other information

The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the financial
statements and our auditors’ report thereon. The directors are responsible for the other information. Our
opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not
express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of
assurance thereon.

In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information
and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial
statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If we
identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform
procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material
misstatement of the other information. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there
is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing
to report based on these responsibilities.

With respect to the Strategic report and Directors' Report, we also considered whether the disclosures
required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.

Based on our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006 requires us also to
report certain opinions and matters as described below.

Strategic report and Directors’ Report ,

In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the
Strategic report and Directors’ Report for the year ended 31 December 2024 is consistent with the financial
statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.

In light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and company and their environment obtained in
the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic report and Directors'
Report.

Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit
Responsibilities of the directors for the financial statements
As explained more fully in the Statement of directors’ responsibilities in respect of the financial statements,

the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the
applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. The directors are also

11

Unipart Group Limited

Independent Auditors’ Report to the Members of Unipart Group Limited
For the Year Ended 31 December 2024 (continued)

Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit (continued)
responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial
statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.

In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the group’s and the
company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going
concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the -
group or the company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.

Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are
free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’ report that includes
our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit
conducted in accordance with ISAs (UK) will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate,
they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of
these financial statements.

Irregularities, including fraud, are instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations. We design
procedures in line with our responsibilities, outlined above, to detect material misstatements in respect of
irregularities, including fraud. The extent to which our procedures are capable of detecting irregularities,
including fraud, is detailed below.

Based on our understanding of the group and industry, we identified that the principal risks of non-
compliance with laws and regulations related to employment and health & safety legislation, and we
considered the extent to which non-compliance might have a material effect on the financial statements.
We also considered those laws and regulations that have a direct impact on the financial statements such
as corporate taxation legislation and the Companies Act 2006. We evaluated management's incentives
and opportunities for fraudulent manipulation of the financial statements (including the risk of override of
controls), and determined that the principal risks were related to the posting of journals with unusual
account combinations or the manipulation of accounting estimates which could be subject to management
bias. Audit procedures performed by the engagement team included:

e Understanding and evaluating the key elements of the Unipart Group's internal control related to
estimates;

e Reviewing accounting estimates for bias and validating the support behind the assumptions and
judgements made by management including challenging against possible alternatives, for example in
relation to retirement benefit obligations;

e Obtaining an understanding of the control environment in monitoring compliance with laws and
regulations;

Reviewing legal expense accounts, board minutes and in-house legal counsel documentation;

e Reading the minutes of the Board meetings to identify any inconsistencies with other information
provided by management;

e Substantive testing of journal entries during the year; particularly focused around unexpected account
combinations;

Incorporating elements of unpredictability in our testing; and
Reviewing component teams’ key working papers for all in-scope components with a particular focus
on the areas involving journals, key judgements and estimates.

There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above. We are less likely to become aware

of instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations that are not closely related to events and
transactions reflected in the financial statements. Also, the risk of not detecting a material misstatement

12

Unipart Group Limited

Independent Auditors’ Report to the Members of Unipart Group Limited
For the Year Ended 31 December 2024 (continued)

Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit (continued)
due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate
concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.

A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRC’s
website at: www.frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This description forms part of our auditors’ report.

Use of this report

This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the company’s members as a body
in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not,
in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to
whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior
consent in writing. ;

Other required reporting

Companies Act 2006 exception reporting
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:

¢ we have not obtained all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the company, or returns adequate for our audit
have not been received from branches not visited by us; or
certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
the company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.

We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.

[Meer eho
Matthew Walker (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
Birmingham
27 March 2025

13

Unipart Group Limited

Consolidated Profit and Loss Account
For the Year Ended 31 December 2024

Turnover

Profit from operating activities
before joint ventures, associates
and exceptionals

Exceptional items

Share of profit after taxation of
joint ventures and associates

Profit before interest and
taxation

Net interest payable and similar
expenses
Net other finance charge

Profit before taxation
Tax on profit

Profit for the financial year

Results

(before

defined

benefit

pensions)

Note &m

5 911.2

Defined
benefit
pensions *
£m

2024
Total

£m

911.2

Results
(before
defined
benefit
pensions)

£m

890.1

Defined
benefit
pensions *

£m

2023
Total

£m

890.1

25.7 (0.7) 25.0 25.8 (0.6) 25.2

7 (0.9)

15 1.2

(0.9)

1.2

(2.0)

0.8 -

(2.0)

0.8

6 26.0 (0.7) 25.3 24.6 (0.6) 24.0

8 (3.0)
9 (0.2)
22.8
12 (6.4)
16.4

(8.1)

(8.8)

2.2

(6.6)

(3.0)
(8.3)

14.0

(4.2)

9.8

(2.3)
(0.3)

22.0

(7.3)

14.7

(7.9)

(8.5)

2.0

(6.5)

(2.3)
(8.2)

13.5

(6.3)

8.2

The notes on pages 21 to 52 form part of these financial statements.

* Defined benefit pension costs separated to provide greater transparency of the financial performance of the Group both before and after
these non-trading items. See note 3 for further details:


Unipart Group Limited

Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
For the Year Ended 31 December 2024

Profit for the financial year

Revaluation of freehold and long leasehold land and buildings
Actuarial gain/(loss) recognised on Group pension schemes
Deferred tax.relating to actuarial (gain)/loss on Group pension schemes

Effect of change in tax rate on deferred tax relating to Group pension
schemes

Other pension related movements

Acquisition of an investment in subsidiary

Currency translation differences

Total other comprehensive income/(expense) for the year

Total comprehensive income for the year

Profit for the financial year attributable to:
Non-controlling interest

Owners of the parent Company

Total comprehensive income attributable to:

Non-controlling interest
Owners of the parent Company

Note

14
24

2024 2023
£m £m
9.8 8.2
0.5 . 05
55.4 (8.8)
(13.5) 2.2
- 0.1
- (0.4)
(2.0) -
(3.0) (1.8)
37.4 8.2
47.2 -
0.1 0.4
9.7 7.8
9.8 8.2
0.1 0.4
47.1 (0.4)
47.2 -

15

Unipart Group Limited

Consolidated Balance Sheet
As at 31 December 2024

Fixed assets
Intangible assets
Tangible assets
Investments

Current assets

Stocks

Debtors: amounts falling due after more than one
year

Debtors: amounts falling due within one year
Cash at bank and in hand .

Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
Net current assets
Total assets less current liabilities

Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one
year
Provisions for liabilities

Net assets excluding pension liability
Pension liability
Net liabilities

Capital and reserves
Called up share capital
Revaluation reserve

Profit and loss account
Total shareholders’ deficit
Non-controlling interests
Total equity

Note

13
14
15

19
23

24

25
26
26

2024 2023

£m £m

0.1 0.1

36.2 33.9

5.4 4.9

41.7 38.9
777A 69.2
53.5 75.8
167.4 156.1
54.9 46.4
352.9 347.5
(280.4) (260.0)

72.5 87.5

114.2 126.4

(20.0) (31.4)

(17.0) (12.7)

77.2 82.3

(123.6) (175.8)

—_44__ —_@35)_

4.6 43

(51.7) 98.5

(47.1) (94.2)

0.7 0.7

(46.4) (93.5)

The financial statements were approved and authorised for issue by the Board and were signed on its behalf

on 27 March 2025.

Cc J Weldon
Director

Registered number: 00576777

16

Unipart Group Limited

Company Balance Sheet
As at 31 December 2024

Fixed assets
Tangible assets
Investments

Current assets

Stocks

Debtors: amounts falling due after more than one
year

Debtors: amounts falling due within one year

Cash at bank and in hand

Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
Net current liabilities

Total assets less current liabilities
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one
year

Provisions for liabilities

Net assets excluding pension liability
Pension liability

Net liabilities

Capital and reserves

Called up share capital

Profit and loss account
Total shareholders’ deficit

Note

14
15

17
17

19
23

24

25
26

2024 2023

£m £m

3.6 25

64.5 64.5

68.1 67.0
33.1 31.1
45.6 60.3
66.7 58.4
13.3 10.8
158.7 160.6
(195.7) (179.2)

(37.0) (18.6)

31.1 48.4

(8.9) (15.9)

(12.1) (10.2)

10.1 22.3

(123.6) (175.8)

(113.5) (153.5)

(113.5) (153.5)

(113.5) (153.5)

As permitted by Section 408(3) of the Companies Act 2006, the Company has not presented its own Profit and
Loss Account or Statement of Comprehensive Income. The Company's loss for the financial year was £1.6m
(2023: loss of £6.3m) and the Company's other comprehensive income for the financial year was £41.6m

(2023: expense of £6.8m).

The financial statements were approved and authorised for issue by the Board and were signed on its behalf

on 27 March 2025.

C J Weldon
Director

Registered number: 00576777

17

Unipart Group Limited

Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
For the Year Ended 31 December 2024

At 1 January 2024

Profit for the financial year

Total other comprehensive
income for the year

Dividends paid to non-

controlling interests

As at 31 December 2024

At 1 January 2023
Profit for the financial year

Total other comprehensive
expense for the year

Dividends paid to non-
controlling interests

Transfer between
reserves

As at 31 December 2023

Called up
share
capital
£m

Called up ,

share
capital
£m

Profit and Total Non-
Revaluation loss shareholder's controlling Total
reserve account deficit interests equity
£m £m £m £m £m
43 (98.5) (94.2) 0.7 (93.5)
- 9.7 9.7 0.1 9.8
0.3 37.1 37.4 - 37.4
- - - (0.1) (0.1)
46 51.7 47.1 07 46.4)
Profit and Total Non-
Revaluation loss shareholder's controlling Total
reserve account deficit interests equity
£m £m £m £m £m
5.8 (99.6) (93.8) 06 (93.2)
- 7.8 7.8 0.4 8.2
0.4 (8.6) (8.2) - (8.2)
- - - (0.3) (0.3)
(1.9) 1.9 : - -
43 98.5 94.2 0.7 93.5)

18

Unipart Group Limited

Company Statement of Changes in Equity
For the Year Ended 31 December 2024

At 1 January 2024
Loss for the financial year

Other comprehensive income for the
year

As at 31 December 2024

At 1 January 2023
Loss for the financial year

Other comprehensive expense for the
year

As at 31 December 2023

Called up
share
capital
£m

Called up
share
capital
£m

Profit and
loss
account
£m

(153.5)

(1.6)

41.6

113.5

Profit and
loss
account
£m
(140.4)

(6.3)

(6.8)

153.5

Total
shareholder's
deficit

£m
(153.5)

(1.6)

41.6

113.5

Total
shareholder's
deficit

£m

(140.4)

(6.3)

(6.8)

153.5)

19

Unipart Group Limited

Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
For the Year Ended 31 December 2024

Net cash generated from operating activities
Taxation paid
Net cash generated from operating activities after tax

Cash flow (used in)/generated from investing activities
Disposal of business

Purchase of tangible assets

Proceeds from disposals of tangible assets

Dividends received from joint ventures and associates
Interest received

Net cash (used in)/generated from investing activities

Cash flow (used in)/generated from financing activities
Receipts from debt

Repayments of debt

Interest paid

Dividends paid to minority interests

Net cash used in financing activities

Net increase in cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January
Exchange losses on cash and cash equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December

Cash and cash equivalents consists of:
Cash at bank and in hand
Bank overdrafts

Cash and cash equivalents

Note

27

15

15

27
27
27

20, 27
27

2024
£m

26.7
(7.2)
19.5

(4.2)

0.4

2.7)

12.6
(14.9)
(3.8)
(0.1)
(6.2)

10.6
45.8

(1.5)
54.9

54.9

54.9

2023
£m

12.7
(7.2)

6.3
(6.8)
0.1
0.4
06
06

2.9
(3.8)
(2.6)
(0.3)
(3.8)

23
44.3
(0.8)
45.8

46.4
(0.8)
45.8

20

Unipart Group Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 December 2024

1 General information
The Company is a trading company within the United Kingdom.

The Company is a private company limited by shares and is incorporated and domiciled in England. The
address of its registered office is Unipart House, Garsington Road, Cowley, Oxford, OX4 2PG.

2 Statement of compliance

The consolidated financial statements of Unipart Group Limited have been prepared in compliance with
United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including Financial Reporting Standard 102, “The Financial
Reporting Standard applicable in the United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland” (‘“FRS 102”) and the
Companies Act 2006.

3 Accounting policies

|In preparing the financial statements, the Company has reviewed the presentation of the Consolidated
Profit and Loss Account in order to assess whether it provides the clearest representation of the
performance of the Group. In forming this view, the directors consider that it is important to present the
defined benefit pension costs of the Group in a separate column in the Consolidated Profit and Loss
Account to demonstrate the financial performance of the Group both before and after these substantial
non-trading costs.

A summary of the significant accounting policies adopted by the Group and the Company is given in the
following paragraphs. The policies have been consistently applied to all years presented, unless otherwise
stated.

3.1 Basis of accounting

Going concern

As also noted in more detail in the Directors’ Report, the Company has undertaken various stress
test scenarios to assess financial resilience and the sufficiency of the significant long-term
borrowing facilities available for the Company and the Group. Based on the outcomes of those
financial resilience tests, the Board is of the view that the Company and Group will have sufficient
headroom available to finance the ongoing activities of the Company. The financial statements
have, therefore, been prepared on the going concern basis, under the historical cost basis of
accounting, modified to include the revaluation of freehold and long leasehold land and buildings
measured at fair value through profit or loss in compliance with United Kingdom Accounting
Standards, including FRS 102 and the Companies Act 2006.

The Group has significant borrowing facilities available, which the directors have a reasonable
expectation will continue to be available on a similar basis, as disclosed in note 20, with sufficient
headroom in respect of these facilities to finance the ongoing activities of the Group.

The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis of accounting, modified to include

the revaluation of freehold and long leasehold land and buildings measured at fair value through
profit and loss.

21

Unipart Group Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 December 2024

3 Accounting policies (continued)

3.4

3.2

3.3

3.4

3.5

Basis of accounting (continued)

The presentation of financial statements in conformity with FRS 102 requires the use of certain
critical accounting estimates. It also requires management to exercise its judgement in the process
of applying the Group's and the Company's accounting policies. The areas involving a higher
degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to
the financial statements are.disclosed in note 4.

Although the Group and Company has net liabilities at year end, the directors are satisfied that the
Group and Company has adequate resources to meet its liabilities as they fall due as the Group and
Company are able to draw upon a group financing facility if required, as referenced to in note 20 of
the financial statements. Accordingly, the directors believe it is appropriate to prepare the financial
statements on the going concern basis.

Basis of consolidation

The Group financial statements comprise a consolidation of the financial statements of the
Company and all of its subsidiary undertakings, except where control is subject to severe long term
restrictions, and incorporates its share of the results of all joint ventures and associates via equity
accounting principles. The results and fair value of the assets and liabilities of undertakings
acquired are consolidated from the date the Group gains control. The results from discontinued
operations are included up until the date they are disposed of or terminated. No Profit and Loss
Account is presented for the Company, as permitted by Section 408 (3) of the Companies Act 2006.
Uniform accounting policies are applied across the Group. Intragroup transactions are eliminated on
consolidation.

Turnover

Turnover is recognised on the fair value of goods and services supplied during the year. The sales
of goods are recognised at the point at which the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred, in
accordance with the individual sales' contracts. The sales of services are recognised in the
accounting period in which the services are rendered, by reference to the agreed contractual
arrangements. Turnover is reported net of conditional discounts, VAT and other sales taxes.
Income derived from gain share arrangements is recognised when the benefits are agreed with
customers and are certain.

Exceptional items

Where items are material that separate presentation is relevant to the Group's financial
performance, then such items are presented as exceptional items on the face of the Profit and Loss
Account.

Cash flow statement

The Company has taken advantage of the exemption, under FRS 102 paragraph 1.12(b), from

preparing a cash flow statement on the basis that it is a qualifying entity and the Company's
cashflows are included in the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement.

22

Unipart Group Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 December 2024

3 Accounting policies (continued)

3.6

3.7

3.8

Pension costs

For defined contribution schemes, contributions are charged to the Consolidated Profit and Loss
Account as payable in respect of the accounting year. :

For defined benefit schemes, the amounts charged to profit before interest and taxation are scheme
administration costs excluding the costs of servicing the investments and past service costs. They
are charged or credited to the statutory Profit and Loss Account headings to which they relate. Past
service costs are recognised immediately in the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account. The net
interest cost is shown as other finance costs or credits adjacent to interest. Actuarial gains and
losses are recognised immediately in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.

Where defined benefit schemes are funded, the assets of the scheme are held separately from
those of the Group, in separate, trustee administered funds. Pension scheme assets are measured
at fair value. Pension scheme liabilities are measured on an actuarial basis using the projected unit
method and discounted at a rate equivalent to the current rate of return on a high quality corporate
bond of equivalent currency and term to the scheme liabilities.

Defined benefit pension costs are analysed out in a separate column on the face of the
Consolidated Profit and Loss Account to demonstrate the financial performance of the Group both
before and after these non trading items.

The actuarial valuations are obtained at least triennially and are updated at each Balance Sheet
date. The resulting defined benefit asset or liability is presented separately after other net assets on
the face of the Balance Sheet.

The Group does not recognise a surplus on pension deficits in relation to pension schemes where
the trust deed and rules indicate that any surplus is unlikely to be repaid to the Company when that
scheme is ultimately wound up.

Goodwill

Goodwill, being the excess of the fair value of purchase consideration of businesses acquired over
the Group's share of the fair value of assets and liabilities acquired, is written off to the Group Profit
and Loss Account on a straight line basis over periods that represent the estimated useful economic
lives of those assets, which are all between 5 and 20 years.

The Group has taken advantage of the exemption in respect of applying FRS 102 section 19
“Business Combinations and Goodwill" to business combinations effected before the date of
transition.

Tangible fixed assets

All tangible fixed assets, with the exception of freehold and long leasehold land and buildings, are
carried at cost less depreciation and provision for impairment where considered appropriate. The
cost of purchased assets is the value of consideration given to acquire the assets and the value of
other, directly attributable costs that are incurred in bringing the assets to the location and condition
necessary for their intended use.

23

Unipart Group Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 December 2024

3 Accounting policies (continued)

3.8

3.9

3.10

3.11

3.12

Tangible fixed assets (continued)

Freehold and long leasehold tand and buildings are carried at valuation, being fair value determined
by external valuers. The external valuations are conducted on a revolving 5 year cycle, or more
often if there is a reason to believe there has been a significant change in value.

With the exception of freehold land, which is not depreciated, depreciation on the cost or valuation
of tangible fixed assets is charged evenly to write off the assets to their residual value over their
estimated useful lives.

The estimated useful lives range as follows:

Freehold land - Not depreciated
Freehold buildings - 35 to 50 years
Long !easehold land and buildings - 35 to 50 years
Short leasehold land and buildings - Over the lease term
Plant and machinery - 1 to 15 years

Impairment of fixed assets and goodwill

Fixed assets and goodwill are reviewed annually for indicators of impairment. Impairment provisions
are calculated by comparing the net book value of fixed assets or goodwill with the higher of the fair
value less costs to sell and the value in use of those assets. The value in use is calculated using
forecast, risk adjusted, discounted, pre tax cash flows over the economic life of the related fixed
asset or goodwill.

Investments

Investments in the Company Balance Sheet are shown at cost less provision for impairment.
Impairment reviews are performed by the directors when there has been an indicator of potential
impairment.

Stocks

Stocks are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value on a weighted average basis. Cost of
finished products and work in progress includes, where appropriate, direct labour and materials and
a proportion of factory overheads. Net realisable value is calculated after taking into account
provisions for obsolescence, as the actual selling price, net of trade discounts, less costs to
completion and all related marketing, selling and distribution costs.

Property provisions

Provision is made for the. best estimate of the unavoidable future lease payments, on a discounted
basis, where material, when the lease becomes onerous, net of amounts that can be reasonably
expected to be recovered from subtenants to which the respective property is expected to be sublet.

Provision is made for the best estimate of dilapidation costs, on a discounted basis, where material,
at the date the obligation arises. The unwinding of the discount is included within interest expense.
The provision is net of amounts recoverable in respect of dilapidation costs for properties that have
been sublet to unrelated third parties.

24

Unipart Group Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 December 2024

3 Accounting policies (continued)

3.13

3.14

3.15

3.16

3.17

Current tax

Current tax is the amount of income tax payable in respect of the taxable profit for the year or prior
years. Tax is calculated on the basis of tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively
enacted by the period end.

Management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which
applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation. it establishes provisions where appropriate on
the basis of amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities.

Deferred tax

Deferred tax is accounted for to recognise timing differences between the recognition of gains and
losses in the financial statements and their recognition for tax purposes. A deferred tax liability is
recognised if transactions or events result in the Group having an obligation to pay more tax in
future periods. A deferred tax asset is only recognised where transactions or events that have
occurred before the Balance Sheet date give the Group the right to pay less tax in the future and it
is considered to be probable that the asset will be recovered. If the deferred tax asset is expected to
be recovered in a period longer than ten years, then half of the balance in excess of ten years is
derecognised due to the uncertainty of relying on very long term forecasts. Deferred tax is
measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences
are expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively
enacted by the Balance Sheet date.

Finance leases

Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all of
the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee. All other leases are classified as operating leases.

Assets held under finance leases where the Group acts as the lessor are presented as a receivable
at an amount equal to the net investment in the lease. Rental payments received by the Group
under the finance leases are apportioned between the finance charge and the reduction of the
outstanding obligation.

For assets held under finance leases when the Group acts as a lessee, the capital element of the
leasing commitment is shown as an obligation under finance leases. The lease rentals are treated
as consisting of capital and interest elements. The capital element is applied to reduce the
outstanding obligation and the interest element is charged to the Consolidated Profit and Loss
Account in proportion to the reducing capital element.

Operating leases

Operating lease rentals are charged to the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account on a straight line
basis over the lease term.

Finance costs
Costs incurred in respect of obtaining new debt instruments are capitalised and reported against the

respective debt within liabilities and amortised to the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account over the
term of the facility.

25

Unipart Group Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 December 2024

3 Accounting policies (continued)

3.18

3.19

3.20

Foreign currency

Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the
rates of exchange ruling at the Balance Sheet date. Transactions in foreign currencies are
translated into sterling at the rate ruling on the date of the transaction. Exchange gains and losses
are recognised in the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account.

The Profit and Loss Accounts of overseas activities are translated into sterling at average rates of
exchange. The Balance Sheets of overseas activities are translated at the rate of exchange
prevailing at the Balance Sheet date. Exchange differences arising on the retranslation at closing
rates of the opening Balance Sheets of overseas activities, together with the year end adjustment to
closing rates of Profit and Loss accounts translated at average rates, are taken to reserves.

Financial instruments

The Group has chosen to adopt FRS 102 Section 11 "Basic Financial Instruments" and FRS 102
Section 12 "Other Financial Instruments Issues" in respect of financial instruments.

Basic financial assets, including trade and other receivables and cash and bank balances, are
initially measured at transaction price. Such assets are subsequently carried at amortised cost using
the effective interest method. At the end of each reporting period, financial assets measured at
amortised cost are assessed for objective evidence of impairment. If an asset is impaired, the
impairment loss is the difference between the carrying amount and the present value of the
estimated cash flows discounted at the asset's original effective interest rate. The impairment loss
is recognised in profit or loss.

Basic financial liabilities, including trade and other payables, bank loans and loans from fellow
Group undertakings are initially recognised at transaction price. Debt instruments are subsequently
carried at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate method. Fees paid on the establishment
of loan facilities are capitalised and netted against the respective facility and amortised over the
period of the facility to which it relates. ‘

Derivatives, including interest rate swaps and forward foreign exchange contracts, are not basic
financial instruments. Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative
contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value. Changes in fair value
of derivatives are recognised in profit or loss in finance costs or income, as appropriate, unless it is
appropriate to apply hedge accounting in which case changes are recognised in the Consolidated
Statement of Comprehensive Income.

Related party transactions

The Company is controlled by. Unipart Group of Companies Limited. The Company has taken
advantage of the exemption, under FRS 102 paragraph 1.12(e), from disclosing transactions with
other wholly owned Group companies. Other related party transactions are disclosed in note 30.

26

Unipart Group Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 December 2024

4 Judgements in applying accounting policies and key sources of estimation uncertainty

The preparation of the financial statements requires management to make certain judgements that could
have a material impact on the financial statements. The key judgements are around going concern and
whether to recognise a surplus on defined benefit pension schemes. The financial statements have been
prepared on the going concern basis, in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and applicable
accounting standards in the United Kingdom. As detailed in note 3.6, the Group does not recognise a
surplus on pension deficits in relation to pension schemes where the trust deed and rules indicate that any
surplus is unlikely to be repaid to the Company when that scheme is ultimately wound up.

The Company has an obligation to pay pension benefits to certain employees. The cost of these benefits
and the present value of the obligation depend on a number of factors, including life expectancy, salary
increases, asset valuations and the discount rate based on the return on high quality corporate bonds.
Management estimates these factors in determining the net pension obligation in the Balance Sheet. The
assumptions reflect historical experience and current trends. See note 24 for the assumptions used in
accounting for defined benefit pension schemes.

Freehold and long leasehold land and buildings are measured at fair value in these financial statements.
Fair value is deemed to be an open market basis valuation and is reassessed annually. They are
amended when hecessary, to reflect current estimates. See note 14 for the carrying value of freehold and
long leasehold land and buildings.

The annual depreciation charge for tangible fixed assets is sensitive to changes in the estimated useful
economic lives and residual values of the assets. The useful lives and residual values are reassessed
annually. They are amended when necessary, to reflect current estimates. See note 14 for the carrying
value of tangible fixed assets.

Stocks are stated after provisions for impairment. These provisions are calculated by using historic
demand to estimate future demand. They are reassessed annually and amended, when necessary, to
reflect current estimates. See note 16 for the carrying value of stocks.

Provisions are made for the best estimates in relation to onerous property leases and dilapidations. These
are reassessed annually and amended, when necessary, to reflect current estimates. See note 23 for the
carrying value of provisions.

Deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent to which it can be regarded as more likely than not
that the Group will generate sufficient future taxable profits from which the reversal of the underlying timing
differences can be deducted. The Group prepares ten year forecasts based on a Board approved budget
and these are used to assess the level of taxable profits that are likely to be generated by the Group inthat .
time, with a 2% long-term growth rate assumed after ten years. Use of long-term forecasts is supported by
the nature of the business with a large proportion of revenue related to long-standing medium-term
logistics contracts. The taxable profits are compared with the deferred tax asset to estimate the amount of
time it is projected to take to recover the deferred tax asset. None of the underlying timing differences are
subject to an expiry date and hence can be used over the long-term as taxable profits arise. If projections
show that the deferred tax asset will be recovered in a period of ten years or less, then 100% of the asset
is recognised. If projections indicate it will take longer than ten years to recover the deferred tax asset,
then 50% of the balance in excess of ten years is disallowed.

27

Unipart Group Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 December 2024

4 Judgements in applying accounting policies and key sources of estimation uncertainty (continued)
Further sensitivities are applied to projections to’ assess the length of time it would take to recover the
asset if total Group profits were reduced in the first ten years by a range of downside scenarios to give
further reassurance that the asset can be recovered in a reasonable timeframe. See note 21 for details of
deferred tax assets recognised.

5 Turnover

All sales in the current and prior year relate to one class of business, that of the provision of global supply
chain and logistics solutions.

An analysis of turnover by category is as follows:

2024 2023
£m £m
Sale of goods 269.0 285.6
Provision of services 642.2 604.5
911.2 890.1

An analysis of turnover by geographical location of customer is as follows:
2024 2023
£m £m
United Kingdom 602.3 575.6
Rest of Europe 185.7 184.1
Rest of World 123.2 130.4
911.2 890.1

28

Unipart Group Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 December 2024

6 Profit before interest and taxation

2024 2023
=m £m

Group turnover 911.2 890.1
Cost of sales (804.0) (781.6)
Gross profit 107.2 108.5
Distribution costs : (34.8) (34.4)
Administrative expenses (49.4) (48.9)
Other operating income 2.0 -
Profit from operating activities before joint ventures,
associates and exceptionals 25.0 25.2
Exceptional items (note 7) (0.9) (2.0)
Share of profit after taxation of joint ventures and associates 1.2 0.8
Profit before interest and taxation 25.3 24.0
Total administration expenses, including exceptionals, are £48.3m (2023: £50.9m).
The Group profit before interest and taxation is stated after charging/(crediting):

2024 2023

£m £m

Depreciation of tangible fixed assets 3.7 3.8
Amount of stock expensed 144.7 146.4
Operating lease rentals 46.1 32.9
Sublet income from land and buildings (1.3) (1.4)
Loss on disposal of fixed assets 0.1 0.1
Foreign exchange gains (1.0) (1.7)

During the year, the Group (including its overseas subsidiaries) obtained the following services from the
Group's auditors:

2024 2023
£m £m
Audit of Group and Company financial statements 0.3 0.3
Other services to the Group:
Audit of the Company's subsidiary financial ‘statements pursuant to
legislation 0.1 0.1

During the year, the Group obtained audit related:assurance services from the Group's auditors at a value
less than £0.1m (2023: less than £0.1m).

29

Unipart Group Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements

For the Year Ended 31 December 2024

7 Exceptional items

Exceptional costs of £0.9m were reported in the Consolidated Profit and Loss account in the year. These
related to restructuring of operations as management refined its strategy and the best structure to support
growth.
An exceptional cost of £2.0m was reported in the Consolidated Profit and Loss account in the prior year.

This related to management's strategic evaluation of its Serck business in the USA and subsequent
decision to withdraw from its Serck operations in this territory.

8 Net interest payable and similar expenses

2024 2023
£m £m
Interest payable and similar expenses
Bank loan interest payable 1.7 1.6
Finance lease interest 0.5 -
Interest on amounts owed to other Group undertakings 1.0 0.8
Amortisation of issue costs on bank facilities 0.2 0.4
Other interest payable 0.7 -
41 2.8
Interest receivable and similar income 1.1 0.5
Net interest payable 3.0 2.
9 Net other finance charge
2024 2023
£m £m
Net finance charge on pension schemes (note 24) 8.1 7.9
Unwinding of discounting of provisions (note 23) 0.2 0.3
Net other finance charge 8.3 8.2

Total finance costs are £11.3m (2023: £10.5m)

30

Unipart Group Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 December 2024

10 Employees

11

Staff costs were as follows:
Group Group

2024 2023

£m £m

Wages and salaries 289.3 256.4
Social security costs 31.3 28.2
Other pension costs 13.3 11.3
333.9 295.9

Other pension costs relate to contributions to defined contribution pension schemes and administration
costs relating to defined benefit pension schemes.

The average monthly number of employees, including the directors, during the year was as follows:

Group Group

2024 2023

No. No.

Direct labour 5,378 4,738
Indirect labour 2,189 2,244
Sales, marketing and administration 743 701
8,310 7,683

The monthly average number of employees including directors in the Company during the year was 6,511
(2023: 6,020), with staff costs of £257.9m (2023: £233.4m).

Directors' emoluments

The aggregate emoluments of the directors during the year totalled £1,180,950 (2023: £750,536). The
highest paid director received aggregate emoluments during the year of £570,271 (2023: £272,594).

Certain directors received their remuneration in respect of services to the Ultimate Group as a whole and
received no remuneration in respect of services provided to the Group or Company.

During the year retirement benefits were accruing to 2 directors (2023: 2) in respect of defined
contribution pension schemes. No directors (2023: nil) accrued retirement benefits under a defined
benefit scheme.

The aggregate emoluments of key management personnel during the year totalled £2,881,384 (2023:
£2,898,908).

Family members of either directors or key management personnel were employed by the Group during
the year and were each paid a salary appropriate for the tasks and responsibilities of their roles. The
position of the family member employed during the year was: Managing Director for the Serck Heat
Exchange businesses.

31

Unipart Group Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 December 2024

12 Tax on profit

2024 2023
£m £m
Analysis of tax charge in the year
Current tax
UK corporation tax (credit)/charge on profit for the year {0.1) 0.4
Adjustments in respect of prior years (0.5) 0.7
(0.6) 1.1
Foreign corporation tax . 6.0 6.2
Total current tax 5.4 7.3
Deferred tax
Origination and reversal of timing differences (1.4) (2.8)
Effect of change in tax rates - (0.1)
Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.3 0.9
Foreign deferred tax (0.1) -
Total deferred tax (1.2) (2.0)
Tax on profit 4.2 5.3

Factors affecting tax charge for the year

The tax assessed for the year is higher than (2023: higher than) the standard rate of corporation tax in the
UK of 25% (2023: 23.5%). The differences are explained below:

2024 2023
£m £m

Profit before taxation 14.0 13.5
Profit before taxation multiplied by the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK
of 25% (2023: 23.5%) 3.5 3.2
Effects of:
Pension related movements in deferred tax 0.2 0.1
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes - 0.4
Non taxable income 0.3 0.5
Adjustments in respect of prior years (0.2) 1.6
Effect of foreign tax rates (0.5) 0.3
Effect of changes in tax rates - (0.1)
Other timing differences (0.1) (0.7)
Deferred tax not recognised 1.0 -
Total tax charge for the year 4.2 6.3

32

Unipart Group Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 December 2024

12

Tax on profit (continued)

Factors that may affect future tax charges

The Group has generated significant UK capital losses from disposals in previous years. Such losses will
only be available to offset UK capital profits arising in future periods, such as gains arising on the future
sale of freehold properties, and it is expected to be some time before these losses are relieved.
Accordingly, the Group has not recognised a deferred tax asset in respect of these losses. As a
consequence, the Group does not expect to incur any significant tax charges in respect of capital gains
within the foreseeable future.

The Group has recognised a deferred tax asset in respect of excess losses from prior years and
accelerated capital allowances, because these are available to offset future taxable profits and it is
considered likely that they will be recovered in a reasonably foreseeable timeframe. Where the Group's
profit projections show that it is likely that the assets will be recovered within ten years, 100% of the asset

- is recognised. Where projections show that it is likely that part of the assets will be recovered:after ten

13

years, only 50% of the balance in excess of ten years is recognised. A profit reduction of 59% would result
in the recovery period being more than ten years. The Group expects to receive a taxable benefit in 2025
for the utilisation of £1.3m of trading losses and timing differences and £7.8m of pension contributions.

The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) introduced legislation for
accounting periods beginning on or after 31 December 2024, implementing a minimum 15% corporate tax
tate for multinationals with global turnover greater than €750m. The Group reviewed its position for 2024
and expects to fall into the safe harbours in all jurisdictions other than the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. The
impact of the top-up tax in 2024 is expected to be less than £0.2m.

Intangible assets

Group

Goodwill

£m

Cost
At 1 January 2024 and 31 December 2024 3.0
Accumulated amortisation
At 1 January 2024 and 31 December 2024 2.9
Net book value

At 31 December 2023 and 31 December 2024 0.1

The Company has fnil intangible assets (2023: £nil).

33

Unipart Group Limited

Notes to the Financia! Statements
For the Year Ended 31 December 2024

14 Tangible assets

Group

Cost or valuation

At 1 January 2024
Additions

Disposals
Revaluations

Foreign exchange

At 31 December 2024

Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2024

Charge for the year
Disposals

Foreign exchange

At 31 December 2024

Net book value
At 31 December 2024

At 31 December 2023

Long Short
Freehold leasehold leasehold
jand and land and land and Plant and
buildings —_ buildings buildings machinery Total
£m £m £m £m £m
20.1 48 2.0 45.3 72.2
- 0.1 : 6.3 6.4
- (0.1) (1.0) (5.4) (6.5)
0.5 - - - 0.5
(0.8) : : (0.3) (1.1)
19.8 48 1.0 45.9 71.5
1.5 06 2.0 34.2 38.3
0.4 0.2 : 3.1 3.7
- (0.1) (1.0) (5.3) (6.4)
0.1 : : 0.4 0.3
2.0 0.7 1.0 31.6 35.3
17.8 41 : 14.3 36.2
18.6 42 : 11.1 33.9

lf the freehold and long leasehold land and buildings had not been included at valuation they would have
been included under the historical cost convention as follows:

Group

Cost

Accumulated depreciation
Net book value

2024
£m

21.4
4.9)
16.5

2023
£m

21.4
4.4
17.0

The total revaluation reserve of £4.6m (2023: £4.3m) relates to freehotd and long leasehold land and

buildings.
2024 £m

Sensitivity
Key assumption Reasonably possible change Impact on net book value
FH, LLH L&B Increase of 10% Increase in the year 2.2
valuation Decrease of 10% Decrease in the year (2.2)
Useful life Increase of 10% Increase in the year , 0.4

Decrease of 10% Decrease in the year (0.4)

2023 £m

25
(2.5)

04
(0.4)

34

Unipart Group Limited

Notes to the Financia! Statements
For the Year Ended 31 December 2024

14 Tangible assets (continued)

At 31 December 2024, freehold and long leasehold properties were revalued, on an open market basis,
giving a total aggregate value of £21.9m (2023: £22.8m).

The freehold and long leasehold properties, including overseas properties, were valued by external
valuers Cushman & Wakefield, being qualified valuers and members of the Royal Institution of Chartered
Surveyors (RICS). All valuations were carried out in accordance with the RICS Appraisal and Valuation
Standards.

The revaluation of freehold and !ong leasehold properties are reported in other comprehensive income.
During the year, total revaluation gains of £nil (2023: £nil) were included within profit and loss and
revaluation gains of £0.5m (2023: £0.5m) were included within other comprehensive income.

A deferred tax liability of £1.5m (2023: £1.5m) has been recognised in relation to the revaluation of
freehold and long leasehold properties.

Company
Short
leasehold
land and Plant and
buildings machinery Total
£m £m £m
Cost or valuation
At 1 January 2024 1.7 15.7 17.4
Additions - 2.2 2.2
Disposals (0.6) (1.7) (2.3)
At 31 December 2024 1.1 16.2 17.3
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2024 1.6 13.3 14.9
Charge for the year - 14 1.1
Disposals (0.6) (1.7) (2.3)
At 31 December 2024 1.0 12.7 13.7
Net book value
At 31 December 2024 0.1 3.5 3.6

At 31 December 2023 0.1 2.4 2.5

35

Unipart Group Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 December 2024

15 Investments

Group

Investment in Investments in

joint ventures associates Total

£m £m £m

Cost and net book value
At 1 January 2024 1.8 3.1 49
Share of profits retained 06 0.6 1.2
Foreign exchange (0.1) (0.2) (0.3)
Dividends (0.1) (0.3) (0.4)
At 31 December 2024 2.2 3.2 5.4

Transactions with the joint venture and associate are disclosed in note 30.

Details of the Group's undertakings are shown in note 33.

Company
Investments
in subsidiary
companies
£m
Cost
At 1 January and 31 December 2024 81.5
Accumulated impairment
At 1 January and 31 December 2024 17.0
Net book value
At 31 December 2023 and 31 December 2024 64.5

The directors believe that the carrying value of the investments is supported by either their underlying net
assets or their value in use. Impairments relate to businesses that are dormant or no longer trading.

In the year the 100% investment in the ordinary share capital of Unipart Group Australia Pty Limited was
acquired by the Company for £1.

Details of the investments of the Company are shown in note 33.

36

Unipart Group Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 December 2024

16 Stocks
Group Group Company Company
2024 2023 2024 2023
£m £m £m £m
Raw materials and consumables 47 44 . -
Work in progress 3.5 1.2 - -
Finished goods and goods for resale’ 79.7 75.5 40.8 39.0
Provisions (10.8) (11.6) (7.7) (7.9)
77.1 69.2 33.1 31.1

There is no material difference between carrying value and replacement cost.

Sensitivity analysis

Stock provisions are assessed for impairment using historic sales to estimate future demand. A 5%
increase or decrease in demand would result in an decrease or increase of the Group's total provision of
£0.5m (2023: £0.6m).

17 Debtors

Group Group Company Company

2024 2023 2024 2023
£m £m £m £m
Amounts falling due after more than one year
Trade debtors 0.3 1.5 : -
Deferred tax (note 21) 46.4 58.3 45.6 57.7
Other debtors 3.8 10.6 - 2.6
Amounts receivable under finance lease 3.0 5.4 : :
53.5 75.8 45.6 60.3

Group Group Company Company

2024 2023 2024 2023
£m £m £m £m
Amounts falling due within one year
Trade debtors 127.5 121.3 21.6 24.0
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 2.8 1.0 20.6 12.1
Amounts receivable under finance lease 2.3 3.1 - -
Corporation tax 2.3 0.1 5.0 2.1
Deferred tax (note 21) 0.5 0.3 : -
Other debtors 6.0 1.5 9.1 5.5
Prepayments and accrued income 26.0 28.8 10.4 14.7
167.4 156.1 66.7 58.4

Trade debtors in the Group are stated after provisions for impairment of £7.0m (2023: £11.9m). Trade
debtors in the Company are stated after provisions for impairment of £2.2m (2023: £5.3m).

Amounts owed by Group undertakings-and joint ventures are unsecured and are repayable on demand.

Certain amounts owed by Group undertakings and joint ventures bear interest based on applicable market
rate.

37

Unipart Group Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 December 2024

18 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year

19

Bank loans and overdrafts (note 20)
Trade creditors

Amounts owed to Group undertakings
Finance leases

Corporation tax

Other taxation and social security
Other creditors

Accruals and deferred income

Group
2024
£m

11.3
49.7
40.0
3.3
1.0
13.8
38.4
122.9
280.4

Group Company Compan

2023
£m

14.4
45.0
42.1
0.1
21.9
25.0
111.5
260.0

2024
£m

29.0
88.3

6.6
71.8
195.7

2023
£m

33.2
70.0

6.3
1.3
68.4
179.2

Amounts owed to Group undertakings are unsecured, interest and non-interest bearing and are repayable

on demand.

Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year

Bank loans and overdrafts (note 20)
Finance leases

Other creditors

Accruals and deferred income

Group

2024
£m

6.8
4.2
9.0
20.0

Group Company Compan

2023
£m

14.8
0.1
46

11.9

31.4

2024
£m

8.9
8.9

2023
£m

4.5
11.4
15.9

The future minimum payments under finance leases due after more than one year are due later than one

year but no later than five years.

38

Unipart Group Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 December 2024

20 Borrowings

Amounts falling due within one year
Bank overdrafts
Bank loans

Amounts falling due between one and five years
Bank loans and working capital facilities

Amounts falling due after more than five years
Bank loans

Group
2024
£m

11.3
11.3

Group
2024
£m

4.4
44

Group
2024
£m

2.4

Group
2023
£m

0.6
13.8
14.4

Group
2023
£m

41.2

\. 11.2

Group
2023
£m

3.6

2.4

3.6

The bank loans and overdrafts bear interest based on the applicable reference rate and are secured by fixed
and floating charges over certain of the Group's assets. Unamortised issue costs associated with the facility
were £0.1m at 31 December 2024 (2023: £0.2m). The costs are allocated to the Consolidated Profit and Loss

Account over the terms of the respective facilities at a constant rate.

The Group has various borrowings facilities available, including a working capital facility of up to £60.0m
(2023: £60.0m) committed until March 2027, a term loan of €2.7m (2023: €3.8m) repayable in monthly
instalments until July 2026, a term loan of €7.9m (2023: €8.7m) repayable in quarterly instalments until

November 2032 and a revolving loan of €10.0m (2023: €10.0m) renewable annually.

Therefore, at the balance sheet date, the Group has aggregate borrowing facilities available to it of £60.0m

(2023: £60.0m) and €20.6m (2023: €29.3m).

39

Unipart Group Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 December 2024

21 Deferred tax

Group Group Company Company
2024 2023 2024 2023
£m £m £m £m
At 1 January 57.7 53.4 57.7 54.0
Amounts credited to the Profit and Loss Account 1.2 2.0 1.3 1.7
Amounts (charged)/credited to the Statement of
Comprehensive Income (13.5) 2.3 (13.4) 2.0
At 31 December 45.4 57.7 45.6 57.7
Representing:
Deferred tax asset included within debtors falling due
within one year (note 17) 0.5 0.3 - -
Deferred tax asset included within debtors falling due in
more than one year (note 17) 46.4 58.3 45.6 57.7
Deferred tax liability included within provisions (note 23) (1.5) (1.5) : :
45.4 57.1 45.6 57.7
The deferred tax asset is made up as follows:
Group Group Company Company
2024 2023 2024 2023
£m £m £m £m
Accelerated capital allowances 7.5 6.5 7.6 7.1
Trading losses and timing differences 6.7 6.8 6.8 6.8
Deferred tax asset relating to pension deficit 31.2 43.8 31.2 43.8
45.4 57.1 45.6 57.7

The Group does not recognise a deferred tax asset of £7.6m (2023: £6.6m) in relation to losses that have
arisen due to the uncertainty concerning the timescales of its recovery.

The Company does not recognise a deferred tax asset of £7.1m (2023: £6.1m) in relation to losses that have
arisen due to the uncertainty concerning the timescales of its recovery.

Sensitivity analysis
A profit reduction of 51% (2023: 49%) in each of the first 10 years of the Group's forward lookinng projections
would result in the overall deferred tax recovery period extending beyond 10 years.

40

Unipart Group Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements

For the Year Ended 31 December 2024
22 Financial instruments

The Group has the following financial instruments:

2024 2023
Financial assets that are debt instruments measured at £m £m
amortised cost.
Trade debtors (note 17) 127.8 122.8
Amounts owed by Group undertakings (note 17) 2.8 1.0
Other debtors (note 17) 9.8 12.1

1404 «135.9

2024 2023
Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost £m £m
Bank loans, overdrafts and working: capital facilities (note 20) 18.1 29.2
Finance leases (notes 18,19) 7.5 0.2
Trade creditors (note 18) 49.7 45.0
Amounts owed to Group undertakings (note 18) 40.0 42.1
Accruals (notes 18,19) . 97.1 89.2
Other creditors (notes 18,19) 38.4 29.6

250.8 235.3

Financial instruments are measured at fair value.
Derivative financial instruments - Forward contracts

The Group enters into forward foreign contracts to mitigate the exchange rate risk for certain foreign currency
transactions. At 31 December 2024, there were no outstanding contracts (2023: none).

Derivative financial instruments - Mismatched swaps
The Group enters swaps to mitigate the exchange rate risk for certain foreign currency transactions. At 31
December 2024, there were two outstanding contracts (2023: none).

The Group was committed to buy USD2.6m at a rate of USD1.3183:£1 and USD1.5m at a rate of
USD1.3102:£1.

Company

The Company has taken advantage of the exemption, under FRS 102 paragraph 1.12(c), from presenting
disclosures in relation to financial instruments on the basis that the Group prepares the equivalent
consolidated disclosures.

41

Unipart Group Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 December 2024

23 Provisions for liabilities

Group
Deferred
tax Legal and
liability product
(note 21) liability Property Total
£m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2024 15 1.3 9.9 12.7
Charge in the year - - 8.1 8.1
Reversed in the year : (1.0) (0.6) (1.6)
Unwinding of discount : - - 0.2 0.2
Utilised in year - - (2.4) (2.4)
At 31 December 2024 1.5 0.3 15.2 17.0
Company
Legal and
product
liability Property Total
£m £m £m
At 1 January 2024 1.0 9.2 10.2
Charge in the year - 5.7 5.7
Reversed in the year (1.0) (0.6) (1.6)
Unwinding of discount - 0.2 0.2
Utilised in year - (2.4) (2.4)
At 31 December 2024 - 12.1 12.1

Legal and product liability

A legal and product liability provision is maintained in respect of compliance with regulations and known
litigations that impact the Group including warranties, claims and other disputes. Due to the contractual nature
of the Group's business, there are from time to time disputes or claims received. In preparing the accounts,
the directors assess the validity and likelihood of each new and existing claim and consider how they should
be reported or provided for in the financial statements in accordance with the accounting standards. If there
are claims at the end of the financial year where a settlement is considered probable and there is a reliable
estimate of the expected outcome, a provision is made in the financial statements. The timing of outflows of
such provisions will vary as and when claims are received and settled, which is not always known with
certainty.

Property

Property provisions are made in respect of dilapidations and where contractual obligations for the costs of
servicing the lease of a property outweigh the expected future economic benefits from that property. Where it
is probable that the Group will not be required to settle a provision, the provision is released. These
provisions are expected to be fully utilised at the end of the respective leases, which vary between 1 and 60
years. A risk free rate of 4.4% - 4.8% has been applied (2023: 3.4% - 3.8%). In the last 5 years, discount
rates have been between 0.0% and 4.8% and the impact is not material to the results.

42

Unipart Group Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 December 2024

23

24

Provisions for liabilities (continued)

Sensitivity :
Key assumption Reasonably possible change Impact on provision 2024£m 2023£m
Property discount rate Increase of 3.5% Decrease in provision 1.2 11

Decrease of 3.5% Increase in provision (1.2) (1.1)

Pension liability

The Group operates several pension schemes in the United Kingdom, the largest being the Unipart Group
Pension Scheme. The assets of this pension scheme are held separately from those of the Group in
trustee administered funds. The scheme is a funded defined benefit scheme. Liabilities are assessed in
accordance with the advice of an independent qualified actuary using the projected unit method.
Contributions are payable in accordance with the long term schedule of contributions agreed with the
Trustees of the pension scheme and these contributions will be reviewed in the light of the results of the
next actuarial valuation. The long term schedule of contributions extends to 2035. Total contributions to
the defined benefit section of this scheme in the year were £5.6m (2023: £0.6m).

With effect from 31 December 2005, defined benefit accrual ceased in the Unipart Group Pension
Scheme.

The latest available formal comprehensive actuarial valuation of the Unipart Group Pension Scheme was
carried out as at 31 December 2023 by AON Solutions UK Limited. Based on this data, the value of the
scheme's liabilities has been updated by Lane Clark & Peacock LLP to assess the liabilities of the scheme
at 31 December 2024 for the purposes of FRS 102. Scheme assets are stated at their market value at 31
December 2024.

The disclosures for all of the Group's defined benefit arrangements are aggregated below.

Total contributions made in the year to defined contribution schemes were £12.6m (2023: £10.7m).

The key financial and other assumptions used to calculate the schemes liabilities are:

2024 2023
Rate of increase in pensions in payment 2.91% 2.83%
Rate of increase in deferred pensions 2.50% 2.39%
RPI inflation rate 3.10% 2.99%
Discount rate 5.49% 469%

A review of mortality for scheme members was conducted in preparation for the actuarial valuations as at
31 December 2023 and the demographic assumptions used in assessing the FRS 102 liabilities reflect
this review. For these schemes, the following life expectancies have been used:

2024 2023
Retirement in this year for male pensioners at age 65 21 years 21 years
Retirement in 2044 for male pensioners at age 65 21 years 21 years
Retirement in this year for female pensioners at age 65 23 years 23 years
Retirement in 2044 for female pensioners at age 65 24years 24 years

The mortality assumptions used in the valuation of the defined benefit pension liabilities of the Group's UK
schemes have been calculated by adjusting the standard mortality tables to reflect the characteristics of
the workforce. . :

43

Unipart Group Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements

For the Year Ended 31 December 2024

24 Pension liability (continued)
In line with prior years, it has been assumed that at retirement, members commute some of their pension
for cash. Based on the schemes' current commutation factors, it has been assumed that members will

commute 18% of their pension on retirement.

Minor changes in key assumptions may have a material impact on the quantum of the pension deficit.

Group
The fair value of total scheme assets were:
2024 2023
£m £m
Equities 57.2 39.0
Corporate bonds 87.0 96.5
Property / Infrastructure 79.2 90.0
Other 135.3 134.2
Total fair value of assets 358.7 359.7
Present value of funded pension plans' liabilities 482.3 535.5
Deficit in funded plans (123.6) (175.8)
The movements in the fair value of scheme assets and present value of scheme liabilities during the year
were:
Liabilities Assets Total
£m £m £m
At 1 January 2024 (535.5) 359.7 (175.8)
Scheme administration costs - (0.7) (0.7)
Interest (cost)/income (24.5) 16.4 (8.1)
Contributions by Group - 5.6 5.6
Benefits paid 26.4 (26.4) -
Actuarial gain 51.3 41 55.4
At 31 December 2024 (482.3 358.7 123.6

Scheme assets include an interest in shares in Unipart Group of Companies Limited, the immediate and
ultimate parent undertaking, valued at £13.1m (2023: £12.2m). Scheme assets do not include any
property occupied by any members of the Group. The actual total return on scheme assets in the year
was a gain of £20.5m (2023: gain of £20.8m). .

The Consolidated Profit and Loss Account includes the following amounts:

2024 2023
£m £m
Scheme administration costs (0.7) (0.6)
Interest costs 8.1 7.9
(8.8) (8.5)

A 0.1% p.a_ increase/decrease to the discount rate would result in the pension deficit
decreasing/increasing by £5.1m (2023: £6.2m). A 0.1% p.a increase/decrease to the inflation rate would
result in the pension deficit increasing/decreasing by £3.0m (2023: £3.8m).

44

Unipart Group Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 December 2024

24 Pension liability (continued)

The use of AA corporate bond yields to derive the discount rate in accordance with FRS 102 has resulted
in a high degree of prudence being reflected in the reported pension deficit, as compared to the Group's
expected return from the pension schemes’ assets. Alternative valuation methodologies exist, such as the
‘Best Estimate’ valuation, which as the name suggests is a neutral valuation balancing each assumption
with a 50/50 probability, the primary assumption difference to FRS 102 being the discount rate as the Best
Estimate valuation reflects the return expected from the schemes’ assets. The Company's best estimate
discount rate at 31 December 2024, based on advice from the scheme actuary, was 7.0% pa. Using this
discount rate, whilst maintaining all other FRS 102 valuation assumptions, would have reduced the
reported Group pension deficit by £70.2m from £123.6m to just £53.4m as at 31 December 2024.

Company
The Company operates the Unipart Group Pension Scheme.

The fair value of total scheme assets were:

2024 2023

£m £m

Equities 57.0 38.8
Corporate bonds 86.8 96.4
Property 79.2 89.9
Other 133.9 132.6
Total fair value of assets 356.9 357.7
Present value of funded pension plan's liabilities (480.5) (533.5)
Total deficit in plan (123.6) (175.8)

The movements in the fair value of scheme assets and present value of scheme liabilities during the year
were:

Liabilities Assets Total

£m £m £m
At 1 January 2024 (533.5) 357.7 (175.8)
. Scheme administration costs - (0.7) (0.7)
Interest (cost)/income (24.4) 16.3 (8.1)
Contributions by Company - 5.6 5.6

Benefits paid 26.2 (26.2) -

Actuarial gain §1.2 4.2 55.4
At 31 December 2024 480.5 356.9 123.6

Scheme assets include an interest in shares in Unipart Group of Companies Limited, the immediate and
ultimate parent undertaking, valued at £13.1m (2023: £12.2m). Scheme assets do not include any
property occupied by any members of the Group. The actual total return on scheme assets in the year
was a gain of £20.5m (2023: gain of £20.7m).

45

Unipart Group Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 December 2024

24 Pension liability (continued)

25

26

The Company Profit and Loss Account includes the following amounts:

2024 2023

- £m £m
Scheme administration costs : (0.7) (0.6)
Interest costs (8.1) (7.9)
(8.8) (8.5)

Total contributions made by the Company in the year to defined contribution schemes were £12.6m (2023:
£10.7m).

Called up share capitat
Group and Company 2024 2023
£m £m

10,002 (2023: 10,002) Ordinary shares of £1 each - -

There is a single class of ordinary shares. There are no restrictions on the distribution of dividends and the
repayment of capital. Ordinary shares are classified as equity.

Reserves
Revaluation reserve

Revaluation reserve represents accumulated revaluation gains and losses for the year and prior years.

Profit and loss account

The profit and loss account represents accumulated comprehensive income for the year and prior years
less dividends paid.

46

Unipart Group Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 December 2024

27 Notes to the cash flow statement

2024 2023
£m £m
Profit after taxation 9.8 8.2
Adjustments for:
Tax on profit 4.2 5.3
Net interest expense 11.3 10.5
Exceptional items 0.9 2.0
Income from interests in associated undertakings (1.2) (0.8)
Profit on ordinary activities 25.0 25.2
Depreciation of tangible assets 3.7 3.8
Loss on disposal of tangible assets , (0.1) (0.1)
Working capital movements:
- Increase in stock {8.4) (3.9)
- Decrease/(increase) in debtors 1.5 (27.9)
- Increase in creditors 7.3 19.8
- Increase/(decrease) in provisions 3.9 (4.1)
Cash relating to exceptional items (0.9) -
Difference between pension service charge and cash contributions (4.9) -
Unrealised foreign currency gains and losses (0.4) (0.1)
Net cash generated from operations 26.7 12.7
Analysis of changes in funds
1 January Non-cash 31 December
2024 Cashflow movement 2024
£m £m £m £m
Cash at-bank and in hand 46.4 10.0 (1.5) 54.9
Bank overdrafts (0.6) 0.6 - -
Cash and cash equivalents 45.8 10.6 (1.5) 54.9
Debt:
Finance leases (0.2) (7.3) - (7.5)
Debts due within one year (13.8) 2.1 0.4 (11.3)
Debts falling due after more than one year (14.8) 7.6 0.5 (6.8)
Total debt excluding cash and overdrafts (28.8) 2.3 0.9 (25.6)
Net funds 17.0 12.9 (0.6) 29.3

Non-cash movements relate to the amortisation of issue costs and foreign exchange movements.

47

Unipart Group Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 December 2024

28 Financial commitments

At 31 December, the Group and Company had financial commitments as follows:

Group
2024
£m

Guarantees for export trading and loan facilities 1.8

Group Company Company

2023 2024 2023
£m £m £m
1.8 - -

Under the Group's banking arrangements, the Company, together with certain of its subsidiary
undertakings, has given security, by way of fixed charges over certain assets, to guarantee bank loans
provided to the Group. The amount guaranteed by the Company outstanding at 31 December 2024 was

£1.3m (2023: £19.1m).

29 Operating lease commitments

At 31 December, the Group had total future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating

leases as follows:

Expiry date

Within 1 year

Between 2 and 5 years
After more than 5 years

2024 2023
£m £m
43.4 35.8
83.2 66.0
33.7 37.8

At 31 December, the Company had total future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating

leases as follows:

Expiry date

Within 1 year

Between 2 and 5 years
After more than 5 years

2024 2023
£m £m
27.2 19.1
48.5 42.0
11.0 12.3

48

Unipart Group Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 December 2024

30

31

32

Related party transactions

During the year the Group entered into transactions, in the ordinary course of business, with other related
parties. Transactions entered into, and trading balances outstanding at 31 December, are as follows:

2024 2023
£m £m
Entities over which the Group has joint control or significant influence

Sales to related parties 0.1 -
Purchases from related parties to 0.1
Payments made on behalf of related parties 9.3 8.4
Balances due from related parties . 0.3 0.3
Dividends from related parties 0.4 0.4

The amounts outstanding are unsecured and will be settled in cash. No guarantees have been given or
received. No provisions have been made by the Group for doubtful debts in respect of the amounts owed
by related parties.

Information regarding transactions with key management personnel is included in note 11.

The Company has taken advantage of the exemption, under FRS 102 paragraph 1.12(e), from disclosing
transactions with other wholly owned Group companies.and from representing disclosures in relation to
key management personnel on the basis that the Group prepares the equivalent consolidated disclosure.

Post balance sheet events

After the Balance Sheet date, the main pension scheme satisfactorily completed its 2023 triennial actuarial
valuation. As part of this valuation, the Group agreed an affordable schedule of contributions that runs
until 2035 based on its latest financial projections. This positive agreement constitutes a non-adjusting
post balance sheet event.

Ultimate parent undertaking and controlling party

The immediate and ultimate parent undertaking and controlling party is Unipart Group of Companies
Limited, which is the parent undertaking of the largest group to consolidate these financial statements.
Copies of Unipart Group of Companies Limited’s consolidated financial statements can be obtained from
the Company Secretary at Unipart House, Cowley, Oxford, OX4 2PG.

49

Unipart Group Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 December 2024

33 Group undertakings

At the year end, the Group's subsidiary undertakings were as set out below. Unless otherwise stated, the
holdings are 100% of the voting rights and ordinary shares.

Distribution, logistics management and manufacturing
Europe and the Middle East

VWA Van Wezel Austria GmbH Austria
SchloRmiuhlstraRe 15b, 2320 Schwechat, Austria

Serck Services (Bahrain) EC Bahrain
PO Box 3214, Manama, Bahrain

Van Wezel Autoparts NV Belgium
Industriepark 3300, Tienen, Belgium

Unipart NV Belgium
Industriepark 3300, Tienen, Belgium

Serck Services UK Limited England

Unipart Accelerated Logistics Limited * England

Unipart Exports Limited (i) * England

Unipart Logistics Limited (i) * England

Unipart North America Limited (i) * : England

Van Wezel GmbH Germany
Siidfeld 7, 59174 Kamen, Germany

Van Wezel Nederland BV Netherlands
John M. Keynesplein 10, 1066EP, Amsterdam, Netherlands

Unipart Logistics LLC Saudi Arabia
Integrated Logistics Bonded Zone, Building 8791, 105th Street, Riyadh, 13442, Saudi Arabia

Unipart Limited Saudi Arabia
3141, Anand Bin Malik - 8282, Riydh, 13521, Saudi Arabia

Unipart Services Spain, S.L. {in liquidation] : Spain
Avenida del Sistema Solar, 19, Nave 5 y 6, San Fernando de Henares, 28830, Spain

Serck Services (Oman) LLC (49%) (ii) Oman
PO Box 1056, Ruwi 112, Sultanate of Oman

Serck Services (Gulf) Limited (49%) (ii) UAE
PO Box 5834, Sharjah, UAE

Serck Services Company LLC (49%) (ii) UAE

PO Box 4439, Abu Dhabi, UAE

50

Unipart Group Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 December 2024

33 Group undertakings (continued)

Africa, Americas and Rest of the World

$3 Technical Pty Ltd Australia
111-113 Newton Road, Wetherill Park, NSW 2164, Australia

Unipart Group Australia Pty Limited Australia
111-113 Newton Road, Wetherill Park, NSW 2164, Australia

Unipart Supply Chain Management (Suzhou) Co., Limited China

Room 901, 9th Floor, Xian Dai Logistics tower, No.88 Xian Dai Avenue, Suzhou
Industrial Park, China

Unipart (Suzhou) Logistics Co., Limited (i) China
Room 901, 9th Floor, Xian Dai Logistics tower, No.88 Xian Dai Avenue, Suzhou
Industrial Park, China

Unipart Services India Private Limited India
Office No. 224, Sector 30-A, Platinum Techno Park, Vashi, Navi Mumbai -
400703, Maharashtra, India

Unipart Kabushiki Kaisha (i) Japan
6F Seifun-Kaikan, 15-6 Nihonbashi-Kabutocho, Chuo-ku Tokyo, 103-0026, Japan

UL Logistics Pty Ltd (i) South Africa
30 Helium Road, Rosslyn, Gauteng, South Africa, 0200

Unipart Korea Yuhan Hoesa (i) South Korea
4F The Exchange Seoul Bldg., 21 Mukyo-ro, Jung-gu, Seoul 100-722, Korea

Serck Services Inc [in liquidation] USA
5501 Peari Street, Denver, CO 80216, USA

Unipart Services America Inc (i) , USA
85 Chestnut Ridge Rd, Suite 211, Montvale, NJ 07645, USA

Unipart Vietnam Company Limited Vietnam

Room 621-1 Cowork 10, Me Linch Point Tower, No 2, Ngo Duc Ke Street, Ben
Nghe Ward, District 1, Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam

Group vehicle and property holding companies
LGUA17 Limited (i) * : England
Unipart Fleet Services Limited (i) * England

$1

Unipart Group Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 December 2024

33 Group undertakings (continued)

Intermediate holding companies
Unipart International Holdings Limited (i) * England
UGC Holdings BV Netherlands
John M. Keynesplein 10, 1066EP, Amsterdam, Netherlands
UNV Invest BV
John M. Keynesplein 10, 1066EP, Amsterdam, Netherlands Netherlands

(i) Shares held directly by the Company

(ii) These companies have been treated as subsidiaries under section 1162(4) of the Companies Act
2006. The investments are held for the long term and the Group's management takes an active role in the
operational and strategic management of these companies. These operations are effectively controlled by
the Group with a dominant influence being exercised over their activities.

* Registered address is Unipart House, Garsington Road, Cowley, Oxford, OX4 2PG

At the year end, the Group's interest in joint ventures and associates was as set out below. Unless

otherwise stated, the holdings are 50% of the voting rights and shares.

Distribution and logistics management

ACI Auto Components International SRO (29%) Czech Republic
Delostrelecka 190/19, 162 00 Praha 6, Czech Republic
PlusParts BV Netherlands

Hoorn 79, 2404 HH, Alphen Aan Den Rijn, Netherlands

Non trading subsidiaries
The Group’s non-trading subsidiary undertakings are set out below. Unless otherwise stated, the holdings
are 100% of the voting rights and ordinary shares.

EW (Holdings) Limited (i) * England
HCSU16 Limited (i) * England
Unipart Security Solutions Limited (i) * England

(i) Share held directly by the Company.

* Registered address is Unipart House, Garsington Road, Cowley, Oxford, OX4 2PG

52

