Docusign Envelopé ID: BD09C264-82A2-495C-A3C0-70F4B02DFCOC

Registered number: 02780748
Charity number: 1016538 .

TRUSTEES' REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 AUGUST 2024

mene

COMPANIES HOUSE

FRIDAY

Dacusign Envelope 1D: BD09C264-82A2-495C-A3C0-70F4B02DFCOC.

CONTENTS

Reference and administrative details of the Company, its Trustees and advisers
Trustees' report .

Independent auditor's report on the financial statements

Statement of financial activities
Balance sheet

Statement of cash flows

Notes to the financial statements

Page

1-2... -

3-23
24 - 28
29

30-31

32
33 - 64


REFERENCE AND ADMINISTRATIVE DETAILS OF THE COMPANY, ITS TRUSTEES AND ADVISERS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 AUGUST 2024

Trustees

Mr Christian Brodie (appointed 18 April 2024)

Mrs Melissa Geiger

Dr Rosalind Given-Wilson, Chair

Mr Ben Gordon

Mr Richard Greenhalgh (resigned 23 May 2024)

Dame Reena Keeble

Dr Zoe Asensio-Sanchez (appointed 1 January 2024, resigned 24 September
2024)

Biographies for Trustees can be found at www.unitedlearning.org.uk

Company registered
number

Charity registered
number

Registered office

Company secretary
Chief executive officer

Senior management
team

Independent auditor

02780748

1016538

Worldwide House
Thorpe Wood
Peterborough
PE3 6SB

Mrs Alison Hussain
Sir Jon Coles

Sir Jon Coles, Chief Executive Officer

Mr Benjamin Antell, Director of Secondary Education

Mrs Fiona Boulton, Director of Independent Schools

Mrs Kate Bradley, Director of HR

Mr Darran Ellison-Lee, Director of Primary Education

Mrs Suzanne Howard, Director of Professional Development
Mrs Louise Johnston, Chief Financial Officer

Ms Anna Paige, Director of Strategy and Performance

Ms Lauren Thorpe, Chief Transformation Officer

Grant Thornton UK LLP
Chartered Accountants
17th Floor

103 Colmore Row
Birmingham

B3 3AG

Page 1

r<)

Docusign Envelope !D: BD09C264-82A2-495C-A3C0-70F4B02DFCOC

REFERENCE AND ADMINISTRATIVE DETAILS OF THE COMPANY, ITS TRUSTEES AND ADVISERS
(CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 AUGUST 2024

Bankers Barclays Bank PLC
One Snowhill
Snowhill Queensway
Birmingham
B4 6GN

Solicitors HCR Hewitsons LLP
Elgin House
Billing Road
Northampton
NN1 5BA

Stone King LLP
3rd Floor
Bateman House
82-88 Hills Road
Cambridge

CB2 1LQ

Page 2

—

ry

Docusign Envelope 1D: BD09C264-82A2-495C-A3C0-70F 4B02DFCOC

TRUSTEES' REPORT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 AUGUST 2024

The Trustees (who are also directors of the Charitable Company for the purposes of the Companies Act) present
their annual report together with the audited financial statements of United Church Schools Trust (Limited by
Guarantee) (the Charitable Company) for the year ended 31 August 2024. The Trustees confirm that the
Trustees' Report and financial statements of the Charitable Company comply with current statutory
requirements, the requirements of the Charitable Company's governing document and the provisions of
Accounting and Reporting by Charities: Statement of Recommended Practice applicable to Charities preparing
their accounts in accordance with the Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland
(FRS 102) ("SORP 2019").

About United Learning

The roots of the United Learning Group can be traced back nearly 140 years. Over this period, we have always
focused on meeting the most important social and educational challenges of the day, with the aim of providing
excellent education to children and young people across the country. We seek to improve the life chances of all
the children and young people we serve and make it our mission to bring out ‘the best in everyone’ — pupils, staff,
parents and the wider community.

We provide a broad education, which prepares children and young people to progress in learning and to make a
success of their lives. We focus sharply on the evidence of what makes it more likely that children and young
people will progress and succeed, apply that to our practice and continue to learn and develop our schools. We
make it a priority to provide teachers with excellent professional support and development, so that every child
receives an excellent experience.

Our strength as a group of schools lies in the unique collaboration between the state and independent sectors, in
our national reach and growing regional clusters and in our dedication to excellence and to continuous
improvement. We believe that each of our schools is and should be distinctive — each is committed to developing
its own strengths and identity while sharing our core values, common principles and a commitment to the highest
standards.

As of 31 August 2024, United Learning — the trading name of the Charitable Group — comprises 14 independent
schools operated within United Church Schools Trust ("UCST”), 90 state sector academies and 2 standalone
nurseries operated within United Learning Trust ("ULT"), and a central office function that serves all our schools.
Together, the Group’s schools educate around 75,000 children and young people and employ nearly 12,000
members of staff.

Constitution and objects

United Church Schools Trust (Limited by Guarantee) is registered with the Charity Commission (No. 1016538)
and is constituted as a company limited by guarantee (registered in England and Wales), governed by
Memorandum and Articles of Association, which were last amended in 2004. The Charitable Company is
established for charitable purposes and in accordance with its Memorandum of Association its principal activity is
to provide a liberal, practical and general education for children which includes religious instruction in the
doctrine and duties of Christianity.

Members of the Board (hereafter called "Trustees")

The present membership of the Board is set out under Reference and Administrative Details. All Trustees served
throughout the year except where indicated.

Each member of the Board of Trustees holds one share in United Learning Ltd (ULL")), the ultimate parent
undertaking.

Page 3

Docusign Envelope ID: BD09C264-82A2-495C-A3C0-70F4B02DFCOC . -

TRUSTEES’ REPORT (CONTINUED)
‘FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 AUGUST 2024

Appointment of Trustees ‘

' The Board has the power to appoint any person as an additional Trustee or to fill a casual.vacancy. A Trustee

_ holds office for three years, after which they must resign. They may remain.in office for a further three years with

_ the consent of the Board. Following this, they’shall be eligible for re-election annually upon the proposal! of the
Chair. .

The training and induction provided for new Trustees is dependent upon their existing experience. Where
necessary, induction will provide training on charity, educational, legal and financial matters. All new Trustees are
given tours of the Charitable Company's schools and the chance to meet with staff and students. They are
provided with copies of policies, procedures, minutes, accounts, budgets, plans and other documents that they
“ will need to undertake their role as Trustees. Induction is tailored specifically to the individual. The Company
Secretary works with the Trustees to identify training needs and steps t to keep the Trustees updated regarding
the regulatory environment.

Strategic report

Strategies and activities

The principal object of the Charitable Company is set out above.

‘Founded.in 1883 as an educational charity anchored in the Church of England, the Charitable Company.

manages the operation of a group of Independent Schools to provide education for students of different abilities

. between:the ages of 0 and 18. Its admission policies welcome people from all employment, faiths and
backgrounds. In 2001, it created a subsidiary charity, United Learning Trust:("ULT") a multi-academy trust, to
extend its work into some of the most challenging inner-city areas through the City Academy programme, and to
this day the Charitable Company remains the sponsor | of ULT.

Page 4

eel UNITED CHURGH'SCHOOLS TRUST-» ;
re *) « . (A’company limited by guarantee)” ,

tnt cbtipieeantdnet httpd ere na, -
hi

TRUSTEES’ REPORT (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 AUGUST 2024

Operating review
Framework for Excellence

Our ‘Framework for Excellence’ is at the heart of everything we do at United Learning. It sets out the five key
principles that we believe are vital to an excellent education for children and young people.

Best From Everyone

Our aim is to bring out the best in everyone. So we must expect the best from everyone, all the time. Every child
is a special individual, capable of extraordinary things. Who can know the limits of any child's potential? So, we
expect unreasonably - we constantly challenge children to do what they think they can't, to persist, to work hard
and to be at their best.

From every adult we expect the same: that they are at their best, expect unreasonably of themselves, are
determined and resilient and pass those expectations on to the children in alt they do. We act with the utmost
love, care and good faith - the highest standards come with the greatest attention to the wellbeing of all.

Powerful Knowledge

Our most important purpose is to teach young people things they would not learn outside school, which free
them to think and act more powerfully in their lives. Words and numbers are our most powerful ways of
representing the world. Mastery of language and fluent mathematical skills are therefore our priority. We aim to
prepare young people to make a success of their lives: a core entitlement to subject-based learning; the
development of talents; an understanding of work and society.

Worthwhile learning is often hard. Inspiring teaching is what gives access to difficult concepts and the thrill of
intellectual discovery. Powerful knowledge is not static or backward-looking. It includes the ability to critique,
challenge the status quo, think and learn.

Education with Character

Academic success is very important. Exam passes are an important aspect of that. But there is more to a good
education. Our schools also aim to develop character, compassion and service. Young people are expected to
contribute to their school and to society; to try things which they think they cannot do; to persist in the face of
difficulty; to become resilient in overcoming obstacles; to manage themselves; to work independently on things
which challenge them; to work with others and in teams; to be courageous and caring; to lead.

We want young people to look back on a joyful schooling which has inspired and challenged them, given them
wide opportunity and prepared them for the ups and downs of life.

Leadership in Every Role

Our children are leaders of the future. We expect them to start today - taking advantage of structured
opportunities to lead and taking responsibility for themselves and others. Every adult in the school is a leader. In
every word, tone and gesture, they set direction and expectation. We expect every adult to take responsibility to
do what is right for the children.

All those in formal leadership positions create the climate in which others work. They demand the highest
standards, build a performance culture, develop their teams and create the space for others to lead. All leaders
listen, grow relationships, act with integrity and care and expect the best from themselves and others in building
a happy, confident school.

Page 5

Docusign Envelope ID: BD09C264-82A2-495C-A3C0-70F 4B02DFCOC

. : TRUSTEES’ REPORT (CONTINUED)
: - FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 AUGUST 2024

Continuous Improvement

However good we are, we can be better. We constantly look for improvements and implement them with pace.
We look for ideas for improvement inside the.organisation and out; we observe one another; we steal good ideas
with pride and look to make them better; we’ work together to improve.

We always look at the evidence and are rigorous in evaluating impact. We stop or change things which aren't
working; we improve things which are. We aim for high leverage: high impact for low effort and low cost. We
constantly look to have more impact for less cost and effort and to spend every pound wisely.

Achievements and performance
We continue to follow our fi five-year strategy, agreed in 2021 and covering the period 2021-2026.

We have a number of performance indicators against which we assess our success and progress in achieving
~ our objectives, covering: - soe ae .
Delivery of excellent standards of education to children and young people : an
Recruitment and retention of high-quality staff, including a strong pipeline of trainee teachers
Achieving in-year budgets and ensuring that its schools are financially sustainable . we
: Making a meaningful contribution to the communities its schools serve and the wider education system

: Progress against nonfinancial indicators is set out below, against the relevant areas of our strategy. (Reporting
includes all schools that joined United Learning before September. 2023. )

Great places to learn

Our schools aim to bring out the best in their pupils, regardless of their starting points or backgrounds, through
developing the whole person and preparing young people for success at school and in their lives, through
excellent pastoral care and through the quality of relationships and the environment in which their pupils'learn.

Our approach to curriculum and teaching, which is seen in all United Learning schools, emphasises deep,

, Subject-based learning, designed to enable young people to master complex, ideas and techniques. Every school
in the group receives the challenge and support they need to ensure that across the curriculum, young people
access this entitlement, building a strong conceptual framework to which new ideas are added in a logical
sequence through skilled teaching, based on Rosenshine's principles of instruction. Over the course of the year
we have continued to develop our United Learning Curriculum as a non-compulsary but comprehensive high-
quality set of resources and materials available to all teachers in the group.

Performance across our secondary schools at GCSE and A level remained broadly stable relative to 2023,
maintaining the positive outcomes seen since the resumption of examinations post-pandemic and above or in
line with national average performance.

At GCSE:

¢ 27% of all entries achieved grade 9 (27% in 2023)

e 62% of all entries achieved a grade 7 or above (61% in 2023) :
« 49% of students achieved a grade 7 or above in both English and maths (53% in 2023) .

Overall, at GCSE our schools achieved value-added of 0.55 (meaning that students achieved on average just
over half a grade higher in every subject than would have been predicted from their starting point). *

At A-level:

e 52% of entries achieved A*A grades (50% in 2023)
« 75% of entries achieved A*B grades (75% in 2023)
e 89% of entries achieved A*C grades (91% in 2023)

Page6 —

Ta

Docusign Envelope ID: BD09C264-82A2-495C-A3C0-70F4B02DFCOC

TRUSTEES’ REPORT (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 AUGUST 2024

Overall, at A level our schools achieved value-added of 0.17 (meaning that students achieved on average just
under a fifth of a grade higher in every subject than would have been predicted from their starting point).

54% of students who left our independent school sixth forms in summer 2024 progressed to Oxbridge or to
Russell Group university destinations, with a further 15% progressing to a ‘top third’ university outside of this
group (69% in total, compared to 58% in 2023). 3% of students progressed to an apprenticeship (unchanged
from 2023).

We introduced a new ‘Pupil Charter’ in September 2023, setting out the experiences our schools commit to
providing their pupils, through their curricular and co-curricular offer. Children and young people from across our
schools participated in a number of Groupwide events and initiatives such as the annual International Art
Competition, the StorySLAM creative writing competition, Student Leadership Programme for primary pupils and
Social Action Programme for secondary students as well as the Olympic-inspired Paris 2024 to encourage
participation in sport and active lifestyles.

During the year three of the Charitable Group’s independent schools (Ashford School; Dunottar School, Tranby
School) were inspected by ISI under the new inspection framework introduced in September 2023. Each school
met the standards.

Each year we survey pupils and parents regarding their experience of our schools. In surveys carried out in

November 2023:

« 98% of prep pupils and 89% of secondary pupils agreed they were proud of their school

« 94% of prep pupils and 88% of secondary pupils agreed that they belong in their school

« 88% of prep parents and 79% of secondary parents said they would recommend their child’s school to family
and friends.

Great places to work

Our schools aim to bring out the best in every colleague, through excellent professional development, a high-
quality working environment and resources and strong relationships with students and other colleagues, so that
every child and young person has a wonderful experience of school, and every adult has a meaningful role and
the opportunity to develop their career.

-Recruitment.to our initial teacher training has been extremely strong, despite wider recruitment challenges

across the sector. During 2023-24 224 people trained to become teachers with United Teaching and were
recommended for Qualified Teaching Status. 92% have been retained into Early Career Teaching roles in United
Learning and beyond. We have achieved our highest ever enrolment for 2024-25, with 370 trainee teachers
starting in September 2024.

Retention remains a challenge in common with the wider sector. Staff retention across our independent schools
decreased for both teachers and support staff. Voluntary turnover for teachers was 12.1% in August 2024 on a
12-month rolling basis (August 2023: 8.9%) and 13.7% for support staff at the same point (2023: 13.3%).

We continue to deliver high quality professional development programmes to colleagues within and beyond
United Learning: internal leadership development programmes; national professional qualifications; networks for
women and minority ethnic colleagues to support progression into leadership and an apprenticeship programme
(delivering apprenticeships at level 3 for Teaching Assistant, Early Years Educator and HR Support together with
a teacher apprenticeship delivered through United Teaching).

We are committed to ensuring that every member of staff is encouraged to aspire, learn, succeed and progress
in their career and is rewarded for doing so. Over the course of the year, 10.9% of Head Teacher appointments
and 7.9% of Senior Leader appointments were made internally.

Page 7

Docusign Envelope ID: BD09C264-82A2-495C-A3C0-70F4B02DFCOC

2

TRUSTEES’ REPORT (CONTINUED) | \
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 AUGUST 2024

Each year we survey staff regarding their experience of working in our schools. Overall engagement dropped
slightly as measured by the survey carried out in November 2023 but remained very high relative to sector and
wider norms at 79% (2023: 80%). Other key responses included:

¢ 90% of staff said they were proud to work at their school (2023: 90%)

71% of staff said they felt their development was supported by their school (2023: 72%)
75% of staff said their school gets the best out of them (2023: 78%) a :
74% of staff said they would recommend their school as an employer to a friend or family member (2023:
77%)

67% of staff said they were satisfied with the balance between their work and home life (2023: 66%):

81% of staff said their school was well led (2023: 82%)

to : 4

Great group to join ot :
We aim to offer high-quality support to our schools across school improvement, the ‘back office’ and in relation
to compliance.

During the year we welcomed Godolphin, an all- through school based in Salisbury into the Group.

, weet “

Financial results are reported separately ‘
Great contribution beyond the group

We aim to make a great contribution beyond United Learning, to have a positive impact on our local communities
beyond our schools, on the national education system and on the wider world through our commitment to
sustainable operations. Our independent schools offer children and young people the opportunity to engage in
volunteering and acts of service within school and beyond, supporting their development as citizens with an
ethical compass, a strong sense of responsibilities to others and conscious of the impact they can have on their
community, society and the planet. :

, We committed in 2021 to establishing a community hub in each of our clusters and are making strong progress
towards this goal through United Communities. By the end of 2023- 24 we had 13 community hubs established,
with a further 7 ready to start development in 2024-25.

Each hub has been tailored to meet the needs of their local community. They often feature a range of common
activities delivered directly by the hub, through partnerships or by local people themselves. Activities may include
youth provision, early years groups, interest groups, adult education, sports and leisure activities, cost-of-living
support, employment support, parent groups and courses, community gardens and community action initiatives.
Across aur hubs this year we have recorded: o

« Over 24,000 instances of participation, across 2,000 hours of community support through various activity
“sessions

A 52% increase in overall engagement and a 200% increase in school and community partnerships, with 160
partnerships being forged by our hubs

1, 000 volunteer hours contributed to hub delivery

e

Page 8

ri

Docusign Envelope ID: BD09C264-82A2-495C-A3C0-70F 4B02DFCOC

TRUSTEES’ REPORT (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 AUGUST 2024

As part of our commitment to the wider education system and with the aim of making a contribution towards the
improvement of education generally across the country, we make available our expertise and resources to
schools beyond United Learning. In 2023-24:

« Our central teams have provided over 100 days of educational and wider support to schools outside the
group, including through the DfE Trust and School Improvement programme.

e We have made available our United Learning Curriculum to schools outside the group. As well as access to
a tried and tested curriculum, schools have access to benchmarking analysis for end of year assessments.
We have kept fees to a minimum, with revenue invested back into curriculum and assessment development
to benefit every school using it. By the end of 2023-24 72 primary schools and 20 secondary schools were
using our curriculum in at least one subject.

« We continued to provide free access to teaching resources provided through Continuity Oak which was first
set up during the pandemic in 2020. Over the course of the academic year, there were 292,000 active users
with users visiting the site more regularly than the year before.

e We continued to open up our high-quality leadership development and apprenticeship programmes to
colleagues from schools outside the group. In 2023-24 around 700 external-participants were enrolled on
one of our programmes.

We have also made a commitment to sustainability, through reducing our impact on the environment and the
carbon emissions associated with our day-to-day operations. We are working towards a target of 50,000 tco2e
per year by 2029/30. Further details of the work carried out towards this ambition in 2023-24 and the impact on
carbon emissions is provided below.

Public benefit

The Trustees confirm that they have referred to the Charity Commission's guidance on Public Benefit when
reviewing the Charitable Company's aims and objectives and in planning future activities for the year.

Going Concern

After making appropriate enquiries, including full consideration of the impact of the current economic and political
climate, the Board of Trustees has a reasonable expectation that the Charitable Company has adequate
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.

The financial results of the Charitable Company for the year were underpinned by strong pupil numbers, and
whilst pay inflation impacted trading results, strong cash reserves were maintained. The current year also started
positively with strong pupil numbers ahead of budget. However, the imposition of VAT from January 2025, and
the loss of business rate relief and the increase of National Insurance from April 2025 will have a significant
impact on the finances of the Charitable Company's schools. The Charitable Company is nevertheless in a
strong position and able to absorb the surplus reduction in the short-term, with reviews continuing to identify
efficiencies and savings to be made in order to restore surplus margins. Various cash flow scenarios have been
modelled for the period to 28 February 2026. The worst-case scenario uses pessimistic assumptions including
potential pupil number reductions resulting from high costs of living, and the model builds in higher levels of
inflation and increased costs. However, even in this scenario the Charitable Company continues to have
adequate cash reserves to meet its liabilities as they fall due during the forecast period. In preparing these
forecasts, management have considered the different levers available to them, such as operating costs savings
and the timing of capital expenditure, which can improve working capital at the lower points, notwithstanding that
this remains positive throughout. The Charitable Company also has available to it a wide range of contingency
measures which it could use to reduce costs and/or realise funds should that prove necessary.

There is no reliance on bank loan facilities in management's assessment of going concern. Drawn balances at
the balance sheet date on bank loan facilities of the parent undertaking, to which the Charitable Company is
party to cross-guarantees, have since been repaid. The headroom in the different cash flow models and the

Page 9

Docusign Envelope 1D: BD09C264-82A2-495C-A3C0-70F4B02DFCOC

_ TRUSTEES' REPORT (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 AUGUST 2024

levers available to the Charitable Company have enabled management to conclude ‘that there is.no material
uncertainty in management's going concern assessment.

_ Therefore, based on the current financial position and latest forecasts, the robustness of cash flow management
and the level of financial reserves available in the cash flow scenarios, the Board of Trustees are confident that

the Charitable Company has adequate resources to continue to operate for the foreseeable future, being at least -

- twelve months from the date of approval of these financial statements. For this reason, it continues to adopt the
going concern. basis in preparing the financial statements. Further details regarding the adoption of the going
-concern basis can be found in the Accounting Policies.

Financial Review ‘ : eg

The total surplus for the year amounted to £18.2m (2023: £4.1m). During the year a multi-year payment scheme
was introduced for parents paying independent school fees. This resulted in an increase in cash reserves and

deferred income compared to the prior year. Included within these results was.an actuarial (loss)/gain on defined -

benefit pension schemes and other pension commitments of £(127)k (2023: £125k).
+ . : wy Sole
The schools operated by the Charitable Company during the year were as follows: |

AKS : : Leg
Ashford School ; :
Banstead Preparatory School -

.Coworth Flexlands School

Dunottar School

Embley :

Godolphin oa

“Guildford High.School ie

Lincoln Minster School

Rowan Preparatory School .

St. Ives (Haslemere) . . -
Surbiton High School . .
The Royal School:
Tranby - .
The Charitable Company is a sponsor of ULT which is a subsidiary undertaking of the Charitable Company.
ULT's aim is to found and manage academies under. the government | initiative, Academies opened to date are
listed on the. United Learning website. .

Funds

The value of restricted funds to be utilised in future years includes £1.2m (2023: £0.7m) for prize and scholarship

funds and other donated funds and £1.7m (2023: £1.7m) for the sponsorship fund. Unrestricted funds amount to .

£47.9m (2023: £30.2m) including designated funds of £2.0m (2023: £2.4m). The assets are held i in pursuance of
the Charitable Company's objectives. . . ..

Plans for future periods «| oe,
The Charitable Company aims .to continue to increase the-number of pupils educated at its schools. This will be
through organic growth and through mergers with other schools. The Charitable Company will continue to strive
to imprave the levels of performance of its students at all levels and will continue its efforts to ensure its prep
. students are well prepared for their secondary education and its secondary students are able to obtain jobs or a
place in higher education, as they choose, once they leave its schools.

" Page 10

yp

Docusign Envelope ID: BD09C264-82A2-495C-A3C0-70F4B02DFCOC

TRUSTEES' REPORT (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 AUGUST 2024

Funding

The Trustees are satisfied that the Charitable Company's assets attributable to each of its individual funds are
available and adequate to fulfil its obligations in relation to those funds.

Principal risks and uncertainties

During the year under review, the Trustees and senior management have formally identified, and documented,
the major risks to which the Charitable Company is exposed.

Those risks have been reviewed by the Risk and Audit Committee and risk management strategies have been
implemented. Risk management is embedded in the day-to-day processes of the Charitable Company and its
subsidiaries. The Trustees have assessed the major risks to which the Charitable Company is exposed, in
particular those related to the operations and finances of the Charitable Company and are satisfied that systems
and procedures are in place to mitigate our exposure to the major risks.

~ The principal risks include: -
Safeguarding

To ensure that pupils are safe, feel safe, and are fully supported in this respect by their school, and to reduce the
risk of child protection or safeguarding issues the Charitable Company has Safeguarding and Child Protection
policies in place. These policies, which are available online, also provide a framework for its schools to develop
secure processes for identifying and supporting pupils at risk of abuse. The implementation and effectiveness of
these policies and procedures, which adhere to Department for Education guidelines on safeguarding and child
protection, are regularly monitored and reviewed.

Cyber Security

In order to reduce the risk of data breaches and loss of access, the Charitable Company has Information
Security policies in place, supported by regular training (including at induction and annual refreshers) and
guidance for staff. Specific software, practices and processes are mandated across all the Charitable
Company's schools to reduce opportunities for security breaches and mitigate the impact of any loss. The
implementation and effectiveness of the approach are regularly monitored and reviewed, including through
periodic stress testing.

People

The Charitable Company depends on the recruitment and retention of high-quality teachers and support staff to
achieve its objectives, but currently operates in a challenging recruitment market. To mitigate the risk of not
being able to recruit and retain high-quality staff the Charitable Company's pay agreements for all staff are
competitive within the sector, United Teaching is increasingly delivering a supply of quality teachers, and the
Group-wide recruitment and retention handbook includes policies and advice for schools, including in relation to
promoting diversity and inclusion. The Charitable Company invests in the development of its staff, including
through provision of bespoke leadership development programmes and apprenticeship programmes for support
staff, delivered through its own training provider.

Financial pressures
The Charitable Company is reliant upon the parents paying its school fees promptly and an economic downturn
could have a direct impact on parents' ability to pay their fees. The imposition of VAT from January 2025, loss of

business rate relief and the increase of National Insurance from April 2025 will have a significant impact on the
finances of the Charitable Company's schools.

Page 11

Docusign Envelope ID: BD09C264-82A2-495C-A3C0-70F 4B02DFCOC

TRUSTEES’ REPORT (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 AUGUST 2024

The markets in which the Charitable Company's schools operate are highly competitive. Consequently, the
* schools constantly review their processes to ensure that their pupils receive a first-class education that helps
them to perform to their full ability in all aspects of school life. .

A large proportion of the Charitable Company's costs relate to staff salaries, which are 2 relatively fixed each year.
There is a risk that a significant drop in revenue or further pay inflation or increases in pension contributions or
‘National Insurance may lead to an inability to cover such costs.

To mitigate these financial risks senior management closely monitor all costs, including pay, against budgets on
a monthly basis. Variance analysis is undertaken to consider the impact of varying income and costs when
budgets are being prepared and through monthly management accounts and reforecasts, and action plans are
prepared and implemented to address any adverse impacts. :

Fraud o * on . . a os

The Charitable Company is alert to the risk of fraud involving its employees or external parties. The Group's Anti-
Fraud policy and response plan is reviewed annually and shared with all employees at the start of each year.
School procedures are reviewed regularly as part of our programme of internal audit visits, with reports shared
with the Board’s Risk and Audit Committee. . :

" Data protection ‘+
In order to ensure that its schools are compliant with all relevant data protection legislation to mitigate the risk of-
access or loss of personal data, the Charitable Company carries out regular training on key aspects of the data .
protection framework, including annual refresher training for all staff. The Group’s Company Secretary is the
Charitable Company's Data Protection Officer and works with school-based colleagues to ensure that policies
and procedures are up to date and to share resources and effective practice.

Business continuity :
The Charitable Company requires all its schools to have in place a business continuity plan; to manage the risk
- to operations in the event of a major incident; these are reviewed as part of the cycle of internal audit visits. A
major incident escalation process is in place and communicated to schools. To further support the effectiveness
of business continuity the Executive carried out a business continuity exercise in 2024-25 and plans to provide
specific training for school business managers.

Pensions

* The Charitable Company also belongs to the Local Government Pension Scheme ("LGPS") run by the relevant
Local Authority for certain nonteaching staff. This is now a closed scheme relating to one school where
employees ‘transferred as part of the conversion from a maintained school. Under the application of FRS 102,
the contributions made by the Charitable Company to these funded defined benefit schemes currently results in
pension deficits recorded in the Statement of Financial Activities. Under FRS 102, the Charitable Company is
required to account for the retirement benefits when it is committed to provide them, even if the actual provision
will be many years into the future. Whilst FRS 102 may be seen as a better reflection of the obligations of the

~. employer to fund pension promises to employees, it does not reflect the actual accounting arrangements of the
Pension Fund. It requires the Charitable Company to recognise the total value of all pension obligations that
have accumulated (including deferred pensions) at 31 August each year. :

A better reflection of a pension fund's actual position comes from the more detailed triennial assessment made
by the fund actuary. This assesses-and examines the ongoing financial position of the Pension Fund. The
actuarial valuation can differ considerably from the FRS 102 valuation. It is the triennial actual valuation that is
used to review contribution rates to the Fund from the Charitable Company, to ensure that existing assets and
future contributions will be sufficient to meet future pension payments, and thus creates a risk in terms of

Page 12

v

Docusign Envelope ID: BD09C264-82A2-495C-A3C0-70F 4B02DFCOC

TRUSTEES' REPORT (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 AUGUST 2024

increased contribution rates.

With regards to the LGPS risk senior management review the accounting reports prepared annually by the
schemes’ actuary.

Financial risk management objectives and policies

The Charitable Company uses various financial instruments including cash and various items such as trade
debtors and trade creditors that arise directly from its operations. The main purpose of these financial
instruments is to raise finance for the Charitable Company's operations.

The main risks arising from the Charitable Company's financial instruments are liquidity risk and interest rate
tisk.

Financial risk management is managed by the central office finance department who act as the Charitable
Company's treasury function ensuring that surplus funds are deposited to maximise interest receivable. In
addition, it uses the Charitable Company's facilities in the most efficient manner. Those facilities are designed.to
ensure that the Charitable Company has sufficient available funds for day-to-day operations and for planned
expansion and capital expenditure. The Charitable Company seeks to manage financial risk by ensuring
sufficient liquidity is available to meet foreseeable needs and to invest cash assets safely and profitably. Short
term flexibility is achieved by overdraft facilities.

The Charitable Company finances its operations through retained surpluses and overdraft facilities.

The Charitable Company is exposed to price risk in terms of fees but is content that these are in line with those
in the sector, and budgets accordingly. The principal credit risk for the Charitable Company arises from its
debtors. Payment terms are enforced by the Charitable Company's credit control department and debt collection
is outsourced as necessary. Credit risk is further managed through regular contact with any families in financial
difficulty in an effort to assist.

Liquidity and cash flow risks are managed through the appropriate and carefully managed use of financial
instruments with our principal bankers.

Policies
As pail of managing our risks and to ensure good governance we outline some key policies below.
Reserves

The Charitable Company’s reserve and funding policy is to maintain the level of available liquid funds required to
support the strategic five-year goals of the Charitable Company and to cover any unforeseen circumstances
including those covered by the Trust's risk management processes, whilst remaining within the debt levels
agreed by Trustees and the banking covenants negotiated. When setting the appropriate level of reserves and
funding Trustees are conscious that in-year funding relates to the pupils currently in schools and should be used
in line with the Charitable Company's objectives, as well as to deal with unforeseen circumstances.

With this over-riding principle and also considering the size of the Charitable Company, its financial position, the
economic landscape and the guidance of the Charities Commission, the Trustees consider that the appropriate
level of available liquid funds to hold is equivalent to one month's expenditure on charitable operating activities.
To achieve this each school is set an in-year budget target which ensures adequate resources including for
estates and digital infrastructure investment as per their individual five-year plans.

Page 13

_ Docusign Envelope ID: BD09C264-82A2-495C-A3C0-70F4B02DFCOC

' TRUSTEES’ REPORT (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 AUGUST 2024

Total reserves as at 31 August 2024 are £50.8m (2023: £32.6m) made up of retained restricted and unrestricted
funds, comprising unrestricted general funds of £46.7m (2023: £28.6m), unrestricted designated funds of £2.0m
(2023: £2.4m), an unrestricted pension fund deficit of £0.8m (2023:: deficit of £0.8m) and restricted funds of
£2.9m (2023: £2.4m). Retained restricted and unrestricted reserves increased during the year. due to well
managed budgeting and financial controls ensuring the aims of the Charitable Company were met.

Available liquid funds as at 31 August 2024 totalled £113.2m (2023: £52.3m) of Which £63.1m relates to fee
invoices raised and settled for multiple years education, the balance excluding bank facilities adequately covers
one month's expenditure on charitable operating activities of £12.9m.

_ Trustees-therefore consider the current level of reserves and: future investment plans to be appropriate and in
line with the Charitable Company's policies.

Investment policy
The Charitable Company's cash reserves are used to set off against borrowings in other independent schools
Group companies to minimise interest charges to the independent schools, Group. Cash balances are invested
with Barclays Bank. During the year the investment strategy produced: returns in fine with the Charitable
- * . Company's expectations and market rates. - 2 . a
t . . -

Environmental policy , pty ee

The Charitable Group recognises that good environmental management must be an integral and fundamental
part of its corporate business strategy and good educational practice. The Charitable Group therefore aims to
ensure that its work is sustainable and seeks to avoid negative impact on the environment and climate. It is
committed to reducing the carbon emissions associated with its operations, towards a goal of carbon neutral.
The Charitable Group seeks to engage all members of the school community in developing a sustainable
approach to their work and activities.so as to help it achieve its aims. The Charitable Group's commitment
includes the environmentally prudent management of its buildings and operations, collaboration with suppliers to
improve its indirect environmental impacts, and environmental programmes and education for its employees and
pupils. ‘ :
The Charitable Group has made a commitment to reduce our impact on the environment and the carbon
emissions associated with our day-to-day operations. We are working towards a target of 50,000 tco2e per year
by 2029/30. - : .
This year, key activities and initiatives have included:

" e Supporting schools to review their energy consumption;

Encouraging schools to have at least one ‘Meat Free Day'a week; : .

Tackling food waste by using ReFood — a food recycling service that turns waste into renewable energy;

Identifying ways to reduce paper consumption;

Schools conducting their own travel surveys with staff and pupils to help better’ assess ‘commuting-related

emissions.

Key educational initiatives included participation in COP Simulation events whereby 150 secondary students
from 23 United Learning schools played the part of world leaders, NGOs and media representatives in a climate
conference simulation. A group of Sixth Form students also joined with their peers across the country to discuss
climate change at the ‘Our Earth, Our Future’ events.

Pay policy for key management personnel . : -

Details of the pay policy in respect of key management personnel is included in the Governance section on page
20.

Page 14

NN

Docusign Envelope ID: BD09C264-82A2-495C-A3C0-70F 4B02DFCOC

3

UNITED CHURCH SCHOOLS TRUST.

(A company limited by guararitee)

TRUSTEES' REPORT (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 AUGUST 2024

Employee involvement and employment of the disabled

Employees have been consulted on issues of concern to them by means of regular consultative committee and
staff meetings and have been kept informed on specific matters directly by management. Regular meetings are
held with staff in our schools to brief them on major issues and discuss local issues. Each school also ensures
that all staff are kept fully briefed through a variety of mechanisms, including staff meetings, notice boards,
newsletters and the Group intranet United Hub.

All new staff joining the Charitable Company are fully inducted and annually the Charitable Company runs two
induction programmes, lasting two days, for all teachers new to United Learning. The Charitable Company
carries out exit interviews for all staff leaving the organisation and has adopted a procedure of upward feedback
for senior management and the Trustees.

The Charitable Company has implemented a number of detailed policies in relation to all aspects of personnel
matters including:

« Equal opportunities policy
e Volunteers’ policy
« Health & safety policy

The Charitable Company has in place a National Recognition Agreement with the main teaching and support
unions. Regular joint meetings of the Joint Negotiating Committee (JNC) are held with this Group where matters
of mutual interest are discussed and agreed upon.

The union members of the JNC report back to their members through locally appointed representatives. Each
school also ensures ail staff are kept fully briefed by using a variety of methods including staff meetings and
newsletters.

In accordance with the Charitable Company's Equal Opportunities policy, the Charitable Company has long
established fair employment practices in the recruitment, selection, retention and training of disabled staff.

Full details of these policies are available from the Charitable Company's offices.
_ Details of the Charitable Group's Gender Pay report can be found on its website at unitedlearning.org.uk
Fundraising

Our schools occasionally fundraise for themselves or charities via events such as performances, non-school
uniform days and school fairs.

Occasionally, the Group is approached by trusts or individuals who are interested in working with us and we will
provide them with programme and funding information in order to explore funding opportunities that meet both
parties' objectives and ethos. In prior years, the Charitable Group has received large donations from individuals
in this way. .

We are members of the Fundraising Regulator Fundraising Preference Service to monitor our fundraising
complaints. We did not receive any complaints this year.

Page 15

Docusign Envelope ID: BD09C264-82A2-495C-A3C0-70F4B02DFCOC

TRUSTEES’ REPORT (CONTINUED) -
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 AUGUST 2024

Academies

The Charitable Company is the sponsor of, and works very closely with, ULT in managing a group of academies.
Through interaction in all of the schools and academies, the two charitable companies work together to share
best practice both ways, and to ensure they give pupils every opportunity to succeed during their education. This
involves such activities as group meetings at every level to share best practice and the sharing of educational
resources over United Hub. '
Access policy . .
: Lome
The Charitable Company works very hard to offer education to as many pupils as possible throughout England.
Through ‘its bursary policy, it widens the number of pupils attending the Charitable Company's schools. By setting
up, sponsoring, and working very closely with ULT, pupils in state funded academies enjoy the same educational
resources available throughout the Charitable Company's schools. The Charitable Company's schools all access
United Hub, which enables teachers at any of the Schools in the Group'to collaborate, share resources and
challenges, positively impacting on workload. . 7

Bursary Policy ; ; ; : a “

The ability to offer education to children of families who would not be able to afford the school fees is very
important to the Charitable Company. As a result of the desire to help children ‘in this way the “Charitable
Company continued to operate its schemes of means tested financial assistance and its separate schemes of
scholarships and family discounts, where parents have more than one child at one of our schools. Means tested
assistance is available to those who would not otherwise be able to afford the fees and, equally importantly, in
cases of hardship where pupil's education or future prospects might be at risk. Bursaries range in value from 5%
to 100% of the school fee. During the year, the Charitable Company granted £0.8m (2023: £0.8m) to pupils
attending its schoals under means tested assistance. This equated to 0.5% of gross fees received (2023: 0.6%). .
Further details of our Bursary Policy and how to apply are on our website. :
In addition during the year, the Charitable Company granted £253k (2023: £307k) of further discounts and £2k
(2023: £4k) of payment deferrals from the £4m Hardship Fund set up during lockdown to support those families
at our independent schools who found themselves unable to pay school fees as a result of the pandemic.

1

Section 172 Statement

The Charitable Company’s purpose is to promote excellent education, providing strong schools which enable ail
young people to make a success of their lives. The Board, senior leadership team and other employees take a
-values-based approach to strategic, financial and operational decision making in line with this purpose and with
the requirements and expectations of Section 172. Strategic priorities ~ informed by our long-term vision and
strategy, outcomes for pupils and other key performance measures — are discussed with the Board at the start of '
each year. The Board sets key performance indicators and targets relating to those priorities and monitors
performance against these at each Group Board meeting. They also receive reports at each Board meeting
highlighting any notable successes or concerns at school level. Sub-Committees, as described in the -
Governance Statement, meet to enable scrutiny of a wider range of data and reports and to review progress
against the strategic objectives:

- The Charitable Company has a strong focus on promoting collaboration between its schools and on enabling
staff to connect with colleagues across the organisation. It operates a wide range of staff networks, from subject
networks to function and specialist networks, which meet regularly (generally virtually) and support the sharing of
knowledge and practice. We hold termly leadership forums bringing all Headteachers together and an annual
Leadership Conference engaging Heads and Chairs. Each year a group-wide induction is provided to new staff —
the Best in Everyone induction — prior to the start of term, which intraduces new employees to the trust and the
opportunities for their professional development. Employees’ views are sought through the annual staff survey,
results of which are shared with the Board together with any action planned at a group level in response; all

Page 16

.

Docusign Envelope ‘iD: BD09C264-82A2-495C-A3C0-70F4B02DFC0C

UNITED CHURCH SCHOOLS TRUS

mpany limited by guarantee)

(A Con
tee ty eee 2 q 4

TRUSTEES’ REPORT (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 AUGUST 2024

schools develop their own annual action plans.

Trustees take steps to understand the needs and priorities of our key stakeholder groups in a number of ways.
Each year the Charitable Company carries out stakeholder surveys of all parents and pupils. The results of these
surveys are shared with the Board. Throughout the year Trustees take opportunities to visit schools, including
discussion with staff and parents. Notes of these visits are shared with the Executive Team and with the Board.
The Board has designated a named Trustee to act as the key link between the Board, the education teams and
the LGBs. The Link Trustee also attends termly ‘Chairs Forum’ meetings with the chairs of lacal governing
bodies. Guidance in relation to our local governing bodies makes clear the importance of having parent
representation at a local level. More widely, the Charitable Company ensures that key information, policies and
procedures are shared with its regulators (the Department for Education and the Information Commissioner's
Office) as necessary.

The Trustees consider relationships with suppliers through their oversight of the Group procurement policy and
Modern Slavery statement. The Group procurement strategy describes how the Charitable Group manages its
suppliers based and criticality, how it deals with performance issues and how it works with suppliers to
continually improve performance and identify new and better ways of delivering services.

Governance

The Board of Trustees have delegated their powers and functions to a committee of Trustees known as the
Group Board. All the Trustees of United Church Schools Trust ("UCST”) are members of the Group Board.
Members of the Group Board also include persons who are Trustees of United Learning Trust (“ULT”), a
subsidiary Charitable Company. The Group Board of Trustees has formally met 6 times during the year and the
UCST Board of Trustees held 3 independent meetings. Attendance during the year at the meetings of the
Trustees was as follows:

UCST meetings attended Out of a possible

Dr Rosalind Given-Wilson (Chair) 3 3
Dr Zoe Asensio-Sanchez 2 2
Mr Christian Brodie 1 1
Mr Ben Gordon 3 3
Mr Richard Greenhalgh 2 2
Dame Reena Keeble 3 3
Board member Group Board meetings Out of a possible
attended

Dr Zoe Asensio-Sanchez 3 5
Mr Christian Brodie (Chair) 3 3
Mr David Brown 4 5
Sir Jon Coles 7 7
Dr Stephen Critchley 1 1
Ms Karima Fahmy 6 7
Mrs Melissa Geiger 7 7
Dr Rosalind Given-Wilson 5 7
Mr Ben Gordon 7 7
Mr Richard Greenhalgh 6 6
Dame Sue John 5 7
Dame Reena Keeble 6 7
Mr Neil MacDonald 6 7
Dr Rania Marandos 6 7
Mr Christie Spurling 6 7

Page 17

Docusign Envelope ID: BD09C264-82A2-495C-A3C0-70F4B02DFCOC . . .

TRUSTEES’ REPORT (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 AUGUST 2024

The Board of Trustees delegates clear responsibilities to the Schools’ Local Governing Bodies (“LGBs’”), whose
purpose is to provide support and challenge to the school on behalf of the Board. The functions and duties of the

~ LGBs are set out in the LGB Members’ Handbook. The Group Board maintains links with the LGBs through the
Head of Local Governance, and designated Trustees for the schools. The Chairs and Vice Chairs of the LGBs
are invited to attend meetings of the Chairs’ Forum, which meets three times in the academic year and provides
advice on strategy and education, relevant continuing professional development and the opportunity for sharing
of best practice with their peers. The Chairs’ Forum ‘meetings further enhance communications between LGBs
and the Trustees. :

The Charitable ‘Company has a policy for: managing conflicts of interest which covers processes for the recording

‘of business and pecuniary interest and the recording of gifts and hospitality, whether accepted or not. The
business interests of the Trustees and LGB members are published on our website. The Trustee's register of
interests in included in the papers for every meeting and the Trustees are asked to declare any further interests

_ at the start of each meeting. Our procurement policy requires employees to check the register of business
interests prior to making procurement decisions. Where there is a potential for any perceived or real conflict of
interest the policy requires staff to declare it the earliest opportunity and remove themselves from any decision-
_ making process. ; . ee Ps .

"The board commissions an external review of board effectiveness every three years. The Board commissioned a
consultant to carry out this external review and they reported to the Board at its April 2024 meeting. The
consultant reviewed a wide range of governance documentation, observed board and committee meetings and
conducted interviews with Board members, the Executive team and the Company Secretary. A written report
was provided to summarise the findings and recommendations and these were presented to the Board at its
April meeting. : .

The consultant concluded that the Board is a highly effective Board, which works as an effective team, using the
appropriate balance of skills, experience, backgrounds and knowledge to make informed decisions. The Board's
composition and its practices are maintaining highly effective arrangements for independent scrutiny, holding to
account and assurance. . The Group Board is meaningfully supporting and contributing to the achievement of
United Learning's strategic objectives.

Board Committees

The Group Board has four further committees, which advise on matters defined by their terms of reference. The
Committees are the Finance Committee, the Risk and Audit Committee, the Nominations and Remuneration
Committee and the Education Standards and Performance Committee. The minutes of all committees are made
available to the Board of Trustees at meetings of the Group Board and any matters of concern are highlighted.

The Finance Committee's purpose is to:

¢ ensure that the Charitable Company properly plans the use of its finances and is adequately funded to
undertake projected expenditure. -

e review and recommend the annual budgets for approval by the Board of Trustees.
monitor financial performance against agreed budgets.
ensure, with the Risk and Audit Committee, that the Charitable Company's financial statements are
supported accurately by management accounts.

¢ monitor and review the Charitable Company's arrangements in relation to investments and make
recommendations to the Board of Trustees in relation to the appointment and removal of investment
advisors.

ve

Page 18

Docusign Envelope ID: BD09C264-82A2-495C-A3C0-70F 4B02DFCOC

HOOLS TRUST -

by guarantees

TRUSTEES' REPORT (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 AUGUST 2024

Attendance at meetings during the year was as follows:

Committee member Meetings attended Out of a possible
Dr Zoe Asensio-Sanchez
Mr Christian Brodie

Mr David Brown

Dr Stephen Critchley

Mr Ben Gordon

Mr Richard Greenhalgh
Mr Neil MacDonald (Chair)

AwWhAAAND
hokRoAnNoan

The Risk and Audit Committee's purpose is to:

ensure implementation of a risk management framework for the Group.

ensure an adequate internal control environment is established.

ensure the Charities’ annual financial statements are reconciled to the management accounts.
ensure effective audit functions are in-place (both external and internal).

ensure adequate risk management processes are in place.

Attendance at meetings in the year was as follows:

Committee member Meetings attended Out of a possible
Mr Andrew Balfour 2 2
Dr Stephen Critchley 1 1
Ms Karima Fahmy (Chair) 4 4
Mrs Melissa Geiger 4 4
Mr Neil MacDonald 2 2
Mr Yong Shen 1 1
Mrs Janet Swadling 1 1

A Group Nominations and Remuneration Committee exists to oversee the appointments of the Group Chairman
and Trustees and to approve Executive salaries and remuneration. The Committee is chaired by Ben Gordon,
and it is advised by the Director of HR and the Company Secretary as appropriate.

The Nominations and Remuneration Committee regularly reviews the terms of office, skills and attributes of the
Board of Trustees. On the basis of this, the Committee plans succession in order to ensure that the Board has
available to it the range of skills and experience required to discharge its responsibilities. The Committee makes
recommendations to the Board as to the need for new Trustees and leads the process of recruitment of Trustees
as required, making recommendations of appointment to the Board. The Committee ensures that appointment is
on merit, but also seeks to ensure that the Board reflects the diversity of the communities it serves.

In considering Executive pay, the Committee takes account of the needs of the organisation for skills, experience
and personal capabilities to enable it to achieve its objectives and the price of such skills in the labour market.
The Committee considers that in order to attract and retain leaders with the skills to achieve organisational
objectives, senior pay must be competitive in the marketplace, taking account of the pay rates of comparably
senior and skilled employees in other organisations — particularly in comparable organisations in education, in
public service and in the charitable sector, and taking account of the transferability of skills into other sectors.

The Committee is also mindful of the need for charities and organisations in receipt of public funding to set pay
rates which are publicly defensible and seen to be appropriate.

The Committee considers annual pay in relation to the performance of the organisation, and of individuals
against their objectives and in their broader contribution and in any changes to job role.

Page 19

Docusign Envelope ID: BD09C264-82A2-495C-A3C0-70F4B02DFCOC

TRUSTEES’ REPORT (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 AUGUST 2024

Attendance at meetings in the year was as follows:

Committee member Meetings attended Out of a possible

Mr Christian Brodie

Mr Ben Gordon (Chair)
Mr Richard Greenhalgh
Dame Sue John

Dr Rania Marandos

OA wha
BAWA

The Group Education Standards and Performance Committee's purpose is to:

ensure that the Trust discharges its responsibilities for education improvement in providing excellent
education so that pupils are able to progress, achieve and to go on to succeed in life.

advise the Group Board with respect to Group strategic educational priorities and key performance
indicators.

provide an overview, scrutiny and challenge of education performance of all schools.

receive reports from the Executive regarding education standards and performance of schools, and to hold
the Executive to account, against the approved Group strategic priorities and key performance indicators
related to schools' educational performance.

review annually the performance of locai/cluster governing bodies to ensure they are operating at maximum
effectiveness.

receive reports from Executive regarding safeguarding, and to hold the Executive to account regarding the
effectiveness of policies and process designed to keep children safe.

Attendance at meetings in the year was as follows:

Committee member Meetings attended Out of a possible
Mr Christian Brodie 1 1 ,

Sir Jon Coles 3 3

Dr Rosalind Given-Wilson 2 3

Mr Richard Greenhalgh 2 3

Dame Sue John 3 3

Dame Reena Keeble (Chair) 3 3

Mr Christie Spurling 3 3

The Purpose of the System of Internal Control

The system of internal control is designed to manage risk to a reasonable level rather than to eliminate all risk of
failure to achieve policies, aims and objectives; it can therefore only provide reasonable and not absolute
assurance of effectiveness. The system of internal control is based on an ongoing process designed to identify
and prioritise the risks to the achievement of the Charitable Company's policies, aims and objectives, to evaluate
the likelihood of those risks being realised and the impact should they be realised, and to manage them
efficiently, effectively and economically. The system of internal control has been in place in the Charitable
Company for the year from 1 September 2023 to 31 August 2024 and up to the date of approval of the annual
report and financial statements.

Page 20

Docusign Envelope ID: BD09C264-82A2-495C-A3C0-70F 4B02DFCOC

ERIN A le ing

TRUSTEES' REPORT (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 AUGUST 2024

Capacity to Handle Risk

The Board of Trustees has reviewed the key risks to which the Charitable Company is exposed, together with
the operating, financial and compliance controls that have been implemented to mitigate those risks. The Board
of Trustees is of the view that there is a formal ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the
Charitable Company's significant risks that has been in place for the year from 1 September 2023 to 31 August
2024 and up to the date of approval of the annual report and financial statements.

The Charitable Group has a risk register that identifies the key strategic risks facing the Group, the actions taken
to mitigate those risks and the owners of those actions. Risk control is exercised by the senior management
team, which reviews the risk register on a monthly basis. The Risk and Audit Committee considers the risk
register at each of their meetings. Its views are reported to the Board of Trustees via the Committee’s minutes
and the Chair's report to the Group Board.

The Risk and Control Framework

- The Charitable Company's system of internal financial control is based on a framework of regular management
information and administrative procedures including the segregation of duties and a system of delegation and
accountability. In particular, it includes:

« comprehensive budgeting and monitoring systems with an annual budget and monthly financial reports,
which are reviewed and agreed by the Board of Trustees.

e regular reviews by the management and the Finance Committee of reports which indicate financial

performance against the forecasts and major purchase plans, capital works and expenditure programmes.

setting targets to measure financial and other performance.

clearly defined purchasing (asset purchase or capital investment) guidelines.

delegation of authority and segregation of duties.

identification and management of risks.

The Group employs an Internal Auditor and a Head of Internal Audit who have a direct reporting line to the Chair
of the Risk and Audit Committee. The Internal Audit service operates best practice professional standards and
guidelines. Internal Audit independently and objectively reviews, on a continuous basis, the extent to which the
internal control environment supports and promotes the achievement of the Charitable Company's objectives,
and contributes to the proper, economic, efficient and effective use of resources.

Internal Audit's role includes giving advice on internal controls and performing a range of checks on the
Charitable Company's core financial systems. An increased level of control checks were carried out in the year
including increased testing of school level controls, covering local governance, procurement, income, cash
management, human resources, payroll and fixed assets.

Furthermore, testing of non-financial systems and central office functions were conducted, including reviews of
the organisation's, health and safety arrangements, staff recruitment and retention management, new school on-
boarding projects and purchase ledger arrangements.

On a quarterly basis, the Head of Internal Audit reports to the Board of Trustees through the Risk and Audit
Committee on the operation of the systems of control and on the discharge of the Board of Trustees’ financial
responsibilities.

For the year ended 31 August 2024, based on the work undertaken, an internal audit opinion of good assurance
was given on the adequacy and effectiveness of the organisation's risk management, internal control and
governance arrangements.

Page 21

Docusign Envelope ID: BD09C264-82A2-495C-A3C0-70F 4B02DFCOC

. TRUSTEES’ REPORT (CONTINUED)
~~ FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 AUGUST 2024

These arrangements can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance that assets are safeguarded,
transactions authorised and properly recorded and that material errors or irregularities are either prevented or
would be detected within a timely period. : +

Chief Executive

The Trustees delegate the day to day responsibility of the running of the- Charitable Company to the Chief
Executive Officer. .

Connected charities ,

There is a relationship between United Church Schools Trust (Limites by Guarantee) a and other charities as set
out in note 27. . . . :

Trustees’ indemnities : - -

In accordance with normal commercial practice, the ‘Charitable Company has insurance in place to protect
Trustees and Officers from claims arising from negligent acts, errors or omissions occurring whilst on Charitable
Company business. ‘ a vite on

Statement of Trustees' (collectively known as the Board) responsibilities

The Trustees (who are also directors of United Church Schools. Trust for the purposes of company law) are
responsible for preparing the Trustees’ report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and
regulations. ;

Company law requires the Trustees to prepare-financial statements for each financial year. Under that law, the
Trustees have elected to prepare the financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally
Accepted Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law), including FRS 102
The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of treland. Under company law the Trustees
must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state
.of affairs of the Charitable Company and of the incaming resources and application of resources, including the
income and expenditure, of the Charitable Company for that period. In preparing these financial statements, the
Trustees are required to: Lo

‘select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently.
observe the methods and principles i in the Charities SORP (FRS 102). °

. make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent.
state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures
disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless’it is inappropriate to presume that the
Charitable Company will continue in operation.

The Trustees are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain
the Charitable Company's transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position
of the Charitable Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies
Act 2006. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Charitable Company and hence for taking
reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.

The Trustees are responsible for the maintenance and. integrity of the corporate and financial information
included on the Charitable Company's website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and
dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. “ .

Page 22

Docusign Envelope ID: BD09C264-82A2-495C-A3C0-70F4B02DFCOC

TRUSTEES' REPORT (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 AUGUST 2024

Disclosure of information to auditor
The Trustees confirm that:

e so far as each Trustee is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Charitable Company's
auditor is unaware; and

e the Trustees have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as Trustees in order to make themselves
aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Charitable Company's auditor is aware of
that information.

Approved by order of the members of the board of Trustees and signed on their behalf by:

Dy Rosalind Guen—Wilson

Dr Rosalind Given-Wilson
Chair Trustee
Date: 13/2/2025

Page 23

Docusign Envelope 10: BD09C264-82A2-495C-A3C0-70F4B02DFCOC

_ INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF UNITED CHURCH SCHOOLS TRUST

Opinion :

We have audited the financial statements of United Church Schools Trust (the ‘Charitable Company’) for
the year ended 31 August 2024, which comprise Statement of Financial Activities (incorporating the Income and
Expenditure Account), the Balance Sheet, the Statement of Cash Flows and notes to the financial statements,
including a summary of significant accounting policies. The financial reporting framework that has been applied
in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards including Financial Reporting
Standard 102; Thé Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland (United Kingdom
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice),

- In our opinion the financial statements: \
. give a true and fair view of the state of the Charitable Company's affairs as at 31 August 2024 and of its
t incoming resources and application of resources, including its income and expenditure for the year then
ended;
«  - have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice

including FRS 102 'The Financial Reporting-Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of treland' and
the Statement of Recommended Practice: Accounting and Reporting by Charities, 2019 Edition; and
. have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006. .

Basis for opinion

We have been appointed as auditor under the Companies Act 2006 and report in accordance with regulations
made under that Act. We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK)

- (ISAs (UK)) and applicable law. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the ‘Auditor's
responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section’ of our report. We are independent of the
Charitable Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial
statements in the UK, including the FRC'’s Ethical Standard, and we have fulfilled our other ethical
responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.

Conclusions relating to going concern

We are responsible for concluding on the appropriateness of the Trustees’ use of the going concern basis of
accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or

- conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Charitable Company's ability to continue as a going concern. If
we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our report to the related
disclosures in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify the auditor's opinion. Our
conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our report. However, future events or
conditions may cause the Charitable Company to cease to continue as a going concern.

(n our evaluation of the Trustees’ conclusions, we considered the inherent risks associated with the Charitable

Company's business model including effects arising from macro-economic uncertainties such as the cost of

living crisis and introduction of VAT on private schools as well as other taxation changes, we assessed and

challenged the reasonableness of estimates made by the trustees and the related disclosures and analysed how

those risks might. affect the charitable company's financial resources or ability to continue operations over the
going concern period.

In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the Trustees’ use of the going concern basis of
" accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate.

Page 24

Docusign Envelope ID: BD09C264-82A2-495C-A3C0-70F 4B02DFCOC

- " UNITED CHURCH SCHOOLS TRUST.

ited by guarantee) |

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF UNITED CHURCH SCHOOLS TRUST
(CONTINUED)

Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified any material uncertainties relating to events or
conditions that, individually or collectively, may cast significant doubt on the Charitable Company's ability to
continue as a going concern for a period of at least twelve months from when the financial statements are
authorised for issue.

Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the Trustees with respect to going concern are described in the
relevant sections of this report.

Other information

The other information comprises the information included in the Trustees’ Report, other than the financial
statements and our auditor's report thereon. The Trustees are responsible for the other information contained
within the Trustees’ Report. Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and,
except to.the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion
thereon.

Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is
materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears
to be materially misstated. If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we
are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements themselves. If,
based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other
information, we are required to report that fact.

We have nothing to report in this regard.

Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006

In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit:

e the information given in the Strategic Report and the Trustees’ Report, prepared for the purposes of
company law, included in the Trustees’ Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are
prepared is consistent with the financial statements.

e the Strategic Report and the Trustees’ Report included in the Trustees’ Report have been prepared in
accordance with applicable legal requirements.

Matter on which we are required to report under the Companies Act 2006
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Charitable Company and its environment obtained in the
course of the audit, we have not identified material misstatements in the Strategic Report or the Directors’ Report

included in the Trustees’ Report.

Matters on which we are required to report by exception

We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the Companies Act 2006
requires us to report to you if, in our opinion:

. adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not been
received from branches not visited by us; or

e the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or

. certain disclosures of Trustees' remuneration specified by law are not made; or

. we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.

Page 25

Docusign Envelope ID: BD09C264-82A2-495C-A3C0-70F 4B02DFCOC

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF UNITED CHURCH SCHOOLS TRUST
(CONTINUED)

Responsibilities of Trustees

-As explained moré-fully in the Responsibilities Statement set out on page 22,. the Trustees (who are also the
directors of the Charitable Company for the purposes of company law) are responsible for the preparation of the
financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the
Trustees determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material

_ misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. : oo

In preparing the financial statements, the Trustees are responsible for assessing the charitable company's ability
to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going
cancern basis of accounting unless the Trustees either intend to liquidate the charitable company or to cease
operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.

* Auditor's responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements
. + Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free
«from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor's report that includes our
+ apinion.-Reasonable assurance is‘a high level of assurance but is not a. guarantee that an audit conducted in

ve .. accordance with ISAs (UK) will always detect ‘a material misstatement when it, exists. .

Misstatements can arise from fraud or error ‘and are congideréd material if, “individually or in the aggregate, they -”
could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial
statements. : .

Irregularities, including fraud, are instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations. The extent to which our
: procedures are capable of detecting irregularities; including fraud, is detailed below:

e We obtained an understanding of the legal and.regulatory frameworks that are applicable to the Charitable

Company and the sector in which it operates. We determined that the following laws and regulations were -

most applicable: The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and the Republic of Ireland (FRS

102), Charities SORP, Charities Act 2011 and the Companies Act 2006;

We understood. how the Charitable Company is complying with these legal-and regulatory frameworks by

making inquiries of management and those charged with governance. We enquired of management and

those charged with governance whether there were any instances of non-compliance with laws and

regulations, or whether they had any knowledge of actual or suspected fraud. We corroborated the results of

our enquiries through our review of board minutes, through our legal and professional expenses review and ©

through inquiries of solicitors who served during the period;

We assessed the susceptibility of the Charitable Company's financial statements to material misstatement,

including how fraud might occur and the risk of material override of controls. Audit procedures performed by

the engagement team included:
Identifying and assessing the design effectiveness of relevant controls management has in place to
prevent and detect fraud .

° Challenging the assumptions and judgements made by management in applying its significant
accounting policies

° Identifying and testing journal entries, with a focus on manual postings, journal entries which directly
impacted the surplus reported in the Statement of Financial Activities and journal entries posted in the
closing and accounts preparation period ~

° Identifying and testing related party transactions

° Performing a review of Board & Committee Meeting minutes to identify any matters discussed which
may bear upon our. audit opinion

Page 26

Docusign Envelope ID? BD09C264-82A2-495C-A3C0-70F4B02DFCOC

E (A company limited: ‘by guarantee)

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF UNITED CHURCH SCHOOLS TRUST
(CONTINUED)

e These audit procedures were designed to provide reasonable assurance that the financial statements were
free from fraud or error. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk
of not detecting one resulting from error and detecting irregularities that result from fraud is inherently more
difficult than detecting those that result from error, as fraud may involve collusion, deliberate concealment,
forgery or intentional misrepresentations. Also, the further removed non-compliance with laws and
regulations is from events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely we would
become aware of it;
e Assessment of the appropriateness of the collective competence and capabilities of the engagement team
included consideration of the engagement team's:
¢ Understanding of, and practical experience with, audit engagements of a similar nature and complexity
through appropriate training and participation

° Knowledge and experience of the charity and education sectors

° Understanding of the legal and regulatory requirements specific to the Charitable Company, including
the provisions of the applicable legislation and the guidance issued by the Charities Commission.

e The team communications in respect of potential non-compliance with relevant laws and regulations,

including the potential for fraud in revenue through manipulation of income and management override of

controls; and

In assessing the potential risks of material misstatement, we obtained an understanding of:
the Charitable Company's operations, including the nature of its income and expenditure and its services
and of its objectives and strategies, to understand the classes of transactions, account balances,
expected financial statement disclosure and business risks that may result in risks of material
misstatement ;

° The Charitable Company's control environment, including: the policies and procedures implemented by
the Charitable Company to ensure compliance with the requirements of the financial reporting
framework and relevant laws and regulations.

« The Policies and procedures implemented by the Charitable Company to ensure compliance with
laws and regulations, and the relevant financial reporting framework

@ The adequacy of procedures for authorisation of transactions, and

«@ Procedures to ensure that possible breaches of laws and regulations are appropriately reviewed.

A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial
Reporting Council's website at! www.frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibtities. Ihis description forms part of our
auditor's report.

Page 27

‘Docusign Envelope ID: BD09C264-82A2~495C-A3C0-70F 4B02DFCOC

" INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF UNITED CHURCH SCHOOLS TRUST

" (CONTINUED)

Use of our report : : .

This report is made solely to the Charitable Company's members, as a body, in accordance with 1 Chapter 3 of
Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the
Charitable Company's members those matters we are required to state to them in. an auditor's report and for no
other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other
than the Charitable Company and its members, as a-bady, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions
we have formed. :

Dae MeLaenon

JimMcLarnonACA . ; ”
Senior Statutory Auditor _ : .

for and on behalf of oe fee :
‘Grant Thornton UKLLP. .- . Lt

Chartered Accountants _ . . " ;

Statutory Auditor © pons oa soy - .
Birmingham : . . . .
‘Date: 13/2/2025 ot oe, ; .

Page 28

Docusign Envelope ID: BD09C264-82A2-495C-A3C0-70F4B02DFCOC

STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL ACTIVITIES (INCORPORATING INCOME AND EXPENDITURE ACCOUNT)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 AUGUST 2024

Restricted Unrestricted Total Total
funds funds funds funds
2024 2024 2024 2023
Note £000 £000 £000 £000
Income from:
Donations and legacies 4 440 13,641 14,081 4,843
Charitable activities 2,3 - 160,833 160,833 139,311
Investments 6 - 1,051 1,051 -
Total income 440 175,525 175,965 144,154
Expenditure on:
Charitable activities 5 3 157,671 157,674 140,199
Total expenditure 3 157,671 157,674 140,199
Net income before net gains/(losses)
on investments 437 17,854 18,291 3,955
Net gains/(losses) on investments 11 5 16 (6)
Net income 448 17,859 18,307 3,949
Transfers between funds 15 (3) 3 - -
Net movement in funds before other SS --E
recognised gains carried forward 445 17,862 18,307 3,949
Other recognised gains:
Actuarial (losses)/gains on defined
benefit pension schemes 23 C - (127) (127) 125
Net movement in funds ; —_ 445° 17,735 18,180 ~~ 4,074
Reconciliation of funds: ~
Total funds brought forward : 2,436 30,171 32,607 28,533
Total funds carried forward 2,881 47,906 50,787 32,607

All activities are continuing and there are no other recognised gains and losses.

The notes on pages 33 to 64 form part of these financial statements.

Page 29

Docusign Envelope ID: BD09C264-82A2-495C-A3C0-70F 4B02DFCOC

BALANCE SHEET
AS AT 31 AUGUST 2024

Fixed assets

Intangible assets
Tangible assets
Investments

Current assets

Stocks
Debtors “

-Cash and cash equivalents . .

Creditors: amounts falling due within one

year
‘Net current assets

Total assets less current liabilities

Net assets excluding pension liability

Defined benefit pension scheme liability
Total net assets
Charity funds .

Restricted funds
Unrestricted funds

Unrestricted funds excluding pension liability

Pension reserve
Total unrestricted funds -

Total funds ©

Note

15

15
15

"15

135

"60,124

91,248

151,507

-. (122,484)

48,696
(790)

2024 2023
£000 £000
1,456 1,756
20,377 8,543
691 210°
22,524 10,509
: 4-
65,155. -
20,323
"5,482
(62,575)
29,053 _ 22,907
51,577 | "33,416
_ 51,577 7 33,416
(790) (809)
50,787 . 32,607
2,881. 2,436
~.. 30,980
(809)
. 47,906 30,171
50,787) me 32,607

Page 30

Pocusign Envelope ID: BD09C264-82A2-495C-A3C0-70F4B02DFCOC
'F

BALANCE SHEET (CONTINUED)
AS AT 31 AUGUST 2024

The Trustees acknowledge their responsibilities for complying with the requirements of the Act with respect to
accounting records and preparation of financial statements.

The financial statements were approved and authorised for issue by the Trustees and signed on their behalf by:

Dr Rosalind Cuen—Wilsow

Dr Rosalind Given-Wilson

Date: 13/2/2025

The nates on pages 33 to 64 form part of these financial statements.

Page 31

Docusign Envelope (D: BD09C264-82A2-495C-A3C0-70F4B02DFCOC

NITED CHURCH'SCHOOLS TRUST
-4A company, limited by-guarantee) .

STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 AUGUST 2024

- 2024 2023

Note £000 £000
Cash flows from operating activities
Net cash provided by operating activities 17 73,955 4,350
Cash flows from investing activities
Purchase of tangible fixed assets (2,823) (2,975)
Net cash acquired in business combinations 642 -
Proceeds from the sale of tangible fixed assets - 1
Net cash used in investing activities (2,181) (2,974)
Cash flows from financing activities
Interest paid (849) (743)
Net cash used in financing activities (849) (743)
Change in cash and cash equivalents in the year 70,925 633
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 20,323 19,690
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 18 91,248 20,323

The nates on pages 33 to 64 form part of these financial statements

~ Page 32

Docusign Envelope 1D: BD09C264-82A2-495C-A3C0-70F4B02DFCOC

1.

ores

UNITED CHURCH SCHOOLS.TRUS

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 AUGUST 2024

Accounting policies

1.1

1.2

1.3

Basis of preparation of financial statements

The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the Charities SORP (FRS 102) -
Accounting and Reporting by Charities: Statement of Recommended Practice applicable to charities
preparing their accounts in accordance with the Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK
and Republic of Ireland (FRS 102) (effective 1 January 2019), the Financial Reporting Standard
applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland (FRS 102) and the Companies Act 2006.

United Church Schools Trust meets the definition of a public benefit entity under FRS 102. Assets
and liabilities are initially recognised at historical cost or transaction value unless otherwise stated in
the relevant accounting policy.

The financial statements are prepared in sterling, which is the functional currency of the company.
Monetary amounts in these financial statements are rounded to the nearest £'000.

Consolidation

Consolidated financial statements have not been prepared as consolidated financial statements for
the Charitable Company's ultimate parent undertaking, United Learning Ltd, are publicly available
from the Charitable Company's registered office and incorporate the results of the Charitable
Company and its subsidiary undertakings. These financial statements therefore represent the results
of United Church Schools Trust only.

Income

All income is recognised once the Charitable Company has entitlement to the income, it is probable
that the income will be received and the amount of income receivable can be measured reliably.

Donated services or facilities are recognised when the Charitable Company has contro! over the item,
any conditions associated with the donated item have been met, the receipt of economic benefit from
the use of the Charitable Company of the item is probable and that economic benefit can be
measured reliably. In accordance with the Charities SORP (FRS 102), volunteer time is not
recognised,

On receipt, donated professional services and donated facilities are recognised on the basis of the
value of the gift to the Charitable Company which is the amount the Charitable Company would have
been willing to pay to obtain services or facilities of equivalent economic benefit on the open market;
a corresponding amount is then recognised in expenditure in the period of receipt.

Bursaries and discounts awarded are charged in the year to which they relate, and are offset against
the associated income.

Income tax recoverable in relation to donations received under Gift Aid or deeds of covenant is
recognised at the time of the donation.

Other income is recognised in the period in which it is receivable and to the extent the goods have
been pravided or on completion of the service.

Page 33

Docusign Envelope ID: BD09C264-82A2-495C-A3C0-70F4B02DFCOC

1.

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 AUGUST 2024

Accounting policies (continued)

1.4

1.5

1.6

Expenditure

Expenditure is recognised once there is a legal or constructive obligation to transfer economic benefit
to a third party, it is probable that a transfer of economic benefits will be required in settlement and
the amount of the obligation can be measured reliably. Expenditure is classified by activity. The costs
of each activity are made up of the total of direct costs and shared costs, including support costs
involved in undertaking each activity. Direct costs attributable to a single activity are allocated directly
to that activity. Shared costs which contribute to more than one activity and support costs which are
not attributable to a single activity are apportioned between those activities on a basis consistent with
the use of resources. Central staff costs are allocated on the basis of time spent, and depreciation
charges allocated on the portion of the asset's use.

Fundraising costs are those incurred in seeking voluntary contributions and do not include the costs
of disseminating information in support of the charitable activities. Charitable activities are costs
incurred in the Charitable Company's educational operations. Governance costs are those incurred in
connection with administration of the Charitable Company and compliance with constitutional and
statutory requirements.

Charitable activities and Governance costs are costs incurred on the Charitable Company's
educational operations, including support costs and costs relating to the governance of the Charitable
Company apportioned to charitable activities.

Restructuring costs are recognised once there is a legal or constructive obligation to undertake
restructuring activities, which includes redundancy payments.

All expenditure is inclusive of irrecoverable VAT.
Fund accounting

General funds are unrestricted funds which are available for use at the discretion of the Trustees in
furtherance of the general objectives of the Company and which have not been designated for other
purposes.

Designated funds comprise unrestricted funds that have been set aside by the Trustees for particular
purposes. The aim and use of each designated fund is set out in the notes to the financial
statements.

Restricted funds are funds which are to be used in accordance with specific restrictions imposed by
donors or which have been raised by the Company for particular purposes. The costs of raising and
administering such funds are charged against the specific fund. The aim and use of each restricted
fund is set out in the notes to the financial statements.

Company status

The Charitable Company is a company limited by guarantee. United Learning Ltd (Company number
00018582) is the ultimate parent undertaking and sole member of the Charitable Company. In the
event of the Charitable Company being wound up, the liability in respect of the guarantee is limited to
£1 per member of the Charitable Company.

Page 34

Docusign Envelope ID: BD09C264-82A2-495C-A3C0-70F4B02DFCOC

1.

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 AUGUST 2024

Accounting policies (continued)

1.7 Going concern

1.8

1.9

The Trustees assess whether the use of going concern is appropriate, considering whether there are
any material uncertainties related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the ability
of the Charitable Company to continue as a going concern. The Trustees make this assessment in
respect of a period at least one year from the signing date of these financial statements. The
Trustees have considered the effects of the current economic and political climate in reaching their
conclusions, preparing an annual budget and monitoring performance against it with forecasts for the -
balance of the financial year and beyond, and preparing a range of cash flow forecast scenarios. The
Charitable Company maintains reserves to meet unexpected obligations and forecast models
indicate that, even allowing for the rising costs of inflation including wage inflation, the Charitable
Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The financial statements have therefore been prepared on a going concern basis as discussed in the
Trustees’ Report on page 9.

Various cash flow scenarios have been modelled for the period to 28 February 2026. The worst-case
scenario uses pessimistic assumptions including potential pupil number reductions resulting from the
impact of the imposition of VAT and high costs of living, and the model builds in higher levels of
inflation and increased costs such as pay. However, even in this scenario the Charitable Company
continues to have adequate cash reserves to meet its liabilities as they fall due during the forecast
period.

There is no reliance on bank loan facilities in management's assessment of going concern. Drawn
balances at the balance sheet date on bank loan facilities of the parent undertaking, to which the
Charitable Company is party to cross-guarantees, have since been repaid. The headroom in the
different cash flow models and the levers available to the Charitable Company have enabled
management to conclude that there is no material uncertainty in management's going concern
assessment.

Intangible fixed assets and amortisation

Intangible assets are capitalised and recognised when future economic benefits are probable and the
cost or value of the asset can be measured reliably. Intangible assets are initially recognised at cost
and are subsequently measured at cost net of amortisation and any provision for impairment.
Amortisation begins when the intangible asset is available for use, and is charged straight line over
the useful economic life of 8 - 10 years.

Tangible fixed assets and depreciation

Tangible fixed assets are carried at cost, net of depreciation and any provision for impairment.

Page 35

Docusign Envelope ID: BD09C264-82A2-495C-A3C0-70F 4B02DFCOC

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 AUGUST 2024

41. Accounting policies (continued)

1.9 Tangible fixed assets and depreciation (continued)

Depreciation is provided at rates calcutated to write off the cost of fixed assets, less their estimated
residual value, over their expected useful tives.

Depreciation is provided on the following bases:

Freehold land - not depreciated
Freehold buildings - 50 years
Leasehold improvements - Term of the lease
Motor vehicles - 4 years

Fixtures and fittings - 10 years
Computer equipment - 3 years

Tangible assets donated to the Charitable Company are capitalised based on their fair values which
then represents the deemed historic cost of the asset.

A review for impairment of a fixed asset is carried out if events or changes in circumstances indicate
that the carrying value of any fixed asset may not be recoverable. Shortfalls between the carrying
value of fixed assets and their recoverable amounts are recognised as impairments. Impairment
losses are recognised in the Statement of Financial Activities.

Assets in the course of construction are included at cost. Depreciation on these assets is not charged
until they are brought into use.

1.10 Investments
Fixed asset investments are a form of financial instrument and are initially recognised at their
transaction cost and subsequently measured at fair value at the Balance sheet date, unless the value
cannot be measured reliably in which case it is measured at cost less impairment. Investment gains
and losses, whether realised or unrealised, are combined and presented as ‘Gains/(Losses) on
investments’ in the Statement of Financial Activities.

1.11 Stocks
Stock is held at the lower of cost and estimated selling price less costs to complete and sell.

1.12 Interest receivable
Interest on funds held on deposit is included when receivable and the amount can be measured
teliably by the Charitable Company; this is normally upon notification of the interest paid or payable
by the Bank.

1.13 Operating leases

Rentals paid under operating leases are charged to the Statement of Financial Activities on a straight
line basis over the lease term.

Page 36

Docusign Envelope ID: BD09C264-82A2-495C-A3C0-70F4B02DFCOC.

UNITED CHURCH SCHOOLS TRUST

(A company limited:by guarantee) ;

cea

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 AUGUST 2024

1. Accounting policies (continued)

1.14 Taxation

The Charitable Company is considered to pass the tests set out in Paragraph 1 Schedule 6 of the
Finance Act 2010 and therefore it meets the definition of a charitable company for UK corporation tax
purposes. Accordingly, the Charitable Company is potentially exempt from taxation in respect of
income or capital gains received within categories covered by Chapter 3 Part 11 of the Corporation
Tax Act 2010 or Section 256 of the Taxation of Chargeable Gains Act 1992, to the extent that such
income or gains are applied exclusively to charitable purposes.

1.15 Debtors

Trade and other debtors are recognised at the settlement amount after any trade discount offered.
Prepayments are valued at the amount prepaid net of any trade discounts due.

1.16 Cash and cash equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents includes cash and short-term highly liquid investments with a short
maturity of three months or less from the date of acquisition or opening of the deposit or similar
account.

1,17 Liabilities and Provisions

Liabilities are recognised when there is an obligation at the Balance Sheet date as a result of a past
event, it is probable that a transfer of economic benefit will be required in settlement, and the amount
of the settlement can be estimated reliably. Liabilities are recognised at the amount that the
Charitable Company anticipates it will pay to settle the debt or the amount it has received as
advanced payments for the goods or services it must provide. Provisions are measured at the best
estimate of the amounts required to settle the obligation. Where the effect of the time value of money
is material, the provision is based on the present value of those amounts, discounted at the pre-tax
discount rate that reflects the risks specific to the liability. The unwinding of the discount is recognised
within interest payable and similar charges.

Page 37

9 as

Docusign Envelope ID: BD09C264-82A2-495C-A3C0-70F 4B02DFCOC

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 AUGUST 2024

1. Accounting policies (continued) - toon,

1.18 Financial instruments

The Charitable Company only enters into basic financial instruments transactions that result in the
_° recognition of financial assets and liabilities like trade and other debtors and creditors, loans from
vo banks and other third -parties, loans to related parties and investments in non-puttable ordinary
_ Shares.”
Financial assets that are measured at cost and amortised: cost are assessed at the end of each
reporting period for objective evidence of impairment. If objective evidence of impairment is found, an
impairment loss is recognised in the Statement of Financial Activities.

For financial assets measured at amortised cost, the impairment loss is measured as the difference
between ‘an asset's Carrying amount and the present value of estimated cash flows discounted at the
asset's original effective interest rate. If a financial asset has a variable interest rate, the discount rate
for measuring any impairment loss is the current effective interest rate determined under the
contract. -

. “ For financial assets measured at cost less impairment, the impairment loss is measured as the
difference between an asset's carrying amount and best estimate, which is an approximation of the
amount that the Charitable Company would receive for the asset if it were to be sold at the balance

sheet date. : - . ‘

Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the Balance Sheet when
there is an enforceable right to set off the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle ona -
‘net basis or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. © .. .

Page 38

Docusign Envelope ID: BD09C264-82A2-495C-A3C0-70F 4B02DFCOC

1.

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 AUGUST 2024

Accounting policies (continued)

1.19 Pensions

The Charitable Company make contributions to a number of defined contribution pension plans for
non-teaching staff and the pension charge represents the amounts payable by the Charitable
Company to the fund in respect of the year.

Retirement benefits to teaching staff are provided by the Teachers' Pension Scheme ("TPS").
Retirement benefits to certain support staff are provided by the Local Government Pension Scheme
("LGPS"). These are defined benefit schemes.

The TPS is an unfunded scheme and contributions are calculated so as to spread the cost of
pensions over employees’ working lives with the Charitable Company in such a way that the pension
cost is a substantially level percentage of current and future pensionable payroll. The contributions
are determined by the Government Actuary on the basis of quadrennial valuations using a
prospective unit credit method. As stated in note 23, the TPS is a multi-employer scheme and there
is insufficient information available to use defined benefit accounting. The TPS is therefore treated as
a defined contribution scheme for accounting purposes and the contributions recognised in the period
to which they relate.

The LGPS is a funded scheme and assets are held separately from those of the Charitable Company
in separate trustee administered funds. Pension scheme assets are measured at fair value and
liabilities are measured on an actuarial basis using the projected unit credit method and discounted at
a rate equivalent to the current rate of return on high quality corporate bond of equivalent term and
currency to the liabilities. The actuarial valuations are obtained at least triennially and are updated at
each Balance Sheet date. The amounts charged to operating surplus are the current service costs
and the costs of scheme introductions, benefit changes, settlements and curtailments. They are
included as part of staff costs as incurred. Net interest on the net defined benefit liability/asset is also
recognised in the Statement of Financial Activities and comprises the interest cost on the defined
benefit obligation and interest income on the scheme assets, calculated by multiplying the fair value
of the scheme assets at the beginning of the period by the rate used to discount the benefit
obligations. The difference between the interest income on the scheme assets and the actual return
on the scheme assets is recognised in other recognised gains and losses.

Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in other recognised gains and losses.

Page 39

"Ge

Docusign Envelope 1D: BD09C264-82A2-495C-A3C0-70F4B020FCOC . ee

1

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31.AUGUST 2024

Accounting policies (continued)

1.20 Judgements in applying accounting policies and key sources of estimation uncertainty

" “+. Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and

other factors, including expectations of future e events that are believed to be reasonable under the
circumstances. : .
The Charitable Company makes estimates and assumptions concerning the future. The resulting
accounting estimates and assumptions will, by definition; seldom equal the related actual results. The
estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the
~ carrying amounts and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below.
Actuarial valuations for Local Government Pension Scheme
_The present value of the Local Government Pension Scheme defined benefit liability depends on a
* number of factors that are determined on an actuarial basis using a variety of assumptions. The
assumptions used in determining the net cost/(income) for pensions include the discount rate. Any
changes in these assumptions, which are disclosed in note 23, will impact the carrying amount of the
pension liability. For example, a 0.1% increase in discount rate would decrease the liability by £111k
-and a 0.1% increase in inflation would increase the liability by £112k.-Furthermore a roll forward
approach which projects results from the latest full actuarial valuation has been used by the actuary
: in valuing the pensions liability at 31 August 2024. Any differences between the figures derived from
the roll forward “approach and a full actuarial valuation would impact on the carrying amount of the
* pension liability. Judgement has also been made. in applying a limit to the net pension surplus
recognised as the present value of future service contributions is s higher than the present value of
future § service costs. . 4 -

_ The estimates and ‘assumptions’ that have a lower risk of causing a material adjustment to the
carrying amounts and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below.

Unfunded pension obligations . .

The Charitable Company has also made provision for unfunded pension obligations amounting to
. £0.8m (2023: £0.8m). The key assumptions made in computing this provision comprise mortality
assumptions and discount rates,-with the total obligation arising as a result having been disclosed in
note 23. Any changes in these assumptions would impact the carrying amount of the liability.
Depreciation of tangible fixed assets :
Depreciation amounting to £2.2m (2023: £1.6m) is computed based on the best estimate of the
useful economic lives of the relevant assets and their ultimate residual value.

oo4 ~

Provision for bad debts . :
An allowance for doubtful debts amounting to. £1.0m (2023: £1.1m) is maintained for estimated
losses resulting from the inability of the Charitable Company's fee debtors to make required
payments. The Charitable Company applies a policy for providing for bad debts which is periodically
reviewed based on an assessment of actual outcomes against those expected.

Page 40

Docusign Envelope ID: BD09C264-82A2-495C-A3C0-70F 4B02DFCOC

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 AUGUST 2024

1. Accounting policies (continued)

1.21 Exceptional items

Costs classified as exceptional relate to costs which are non-recurring and outside of the normal
charitable activities of the company as disclosed in note 8.

2. School fees receivable and catering income
2024 2023
£000 £000
Gross fee income receivable 135,917 124,750
Scholarships, bursaries and reduced fees (10,317) (10,387)
Catering income 2,111 1,966
Net fee income receivable 127,711 116,329

In 2024, of the total school fees receivable and catering income, £127,711k (2023: £116,329k) was to
unrestricted funds and £NIL (2023: £NIL) was to restricted funds.

3. Other educational related income

2024 2023

£000 £000
Support services to other schools and academies 18,990 13,758
Early years funding 1,478 1,190
Pupil registration fees 368 361
Charges for additional classes 1,805 1,557
Charges for school trips 5,629 3,640
Other school income 3,780 1,998
Rents and lettings 1,072 478

33,122 22,982

In 2024, of the other educational related income, £33,122k (2023: £22,982k) was to unrestricted funds
and £NIL (2023: £NIL) was to restricted funds.

Page 41

Docusign Envelope ID: BD09C264-82A2-495C-A3C0-70F4B02DFCOC

UNITED CHURCH'SCHOOLS TRUST

(A;company limite

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 AUGUST 2024

4. Voluntary income

2024 2023

£000 £000

Other sponsorship and donations received 3,837 3,773

Gift aid from subsidiary undertakings 1,144 1,070
9,100 -

Net assets transferred from other charities

14,081 4,843

In 2024 of the total voluntary income, £13,641k (2023: £4,843k) was to unrestricted funds and £440k
(2023: ENIL) was to restricted funds.

Page 42

.

»

Docusign Envelope ID: BD09C264-82A2-495C-A3C0-70F 4B02DFCOC

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 AUGUST 2024

Analysis of total resources expended

Charitable activites
Direct costs
Educational supplies
Staff development .
Examination fees
Technology costs

Support costs
Recruitment and support

Premises costs

Insurance

Catering

Marketing

Legal and professional

Other support costs
Depreciation and amortisation

Loss/{profit) on disposal of
assets

Bank interest and charges

Governance coste
Auditor costs - audit fees

Company Secretariat costs
Trustees' meeting and travel

Total 2024

Total 2023

Staff costs Other costs Depreciation

2024
£000

78,353
372

2024
£000

15,105

2024
£000

Total
2024
£000

93,458
468

Total
2023
£000

84,193
374

1,400

17,579

594
13,384
4,174
7,685
1,696
1,453
2,835

101,380

594
17,839
1,174
7,685
3,096
1,453
20,414
2,450

607
16,270
1,037
6,446
2,730
1,156
17,712
1,863

(1)
862

29,876
129

140,199

In 2024, of the total resources expended, £157,671k (2023: £140,199k) was to unrestricted funds and
£3k (2023: £NIL) was to restricted funds.

Page 43

Docusign Envelope ID: BD09C264-82A2-495C-A3C0-70F 4B02DFCOC

* UNITED CHURCH SCHOOLS TRUST.
“.- (A company limited by guarantee)

1

G

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 AUGUST 2024

>

N

Total resources expended include:

2024
£000
Auditor's remuneration:
Audit of the charitable company's annual financial statements 71
Non-audit services 10
Depreciation:
Tangible fixed assets, owned 2,150
Amortisation: Intangible fixed assets 300
Operating lease rentals 1,280
Net interest
2024
£000
Bank interest receivable 1,051
Interest payable to Group undertakings (847)
Bank interest payable (2)
202
Staff costs
2024
£000
Wages and salaries 83,851
Social security costs 8,674
Other pension costs (note 23) 13,472
Agency fees 358
106,355

2023
£000

64

1,564
299
1,084

2023
£000

(743)

(743)

2023
£000
76,770
7,872
11,595
497

96,734

During the year, there were redundancy or termination payments made which amounted to £276k (2023:

£859k).

The average number of persons employed by the Company during the year was as follows:

2024
No.

2,455

2023
No.

2,349

Page 44

ant

Docusign Envelope ID: BD09C264-82A2-495C-A3C0-70F4B02DFCOC

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 AUGUST 2024

7. Staff costs (continued)

The number of employees whose employee benefits (excluding employer pension costs) exceeded

£60,000 was:

2024 . 2023

No. No.

In the band £60,001 - £70,000 133 110
In the band £70,001 - £80,000 49 36
In the band £80,001 - £90,000 32 11
In the band £90,001 - £100,000 8 10
In the band £100,001 - £110,000 7 4.
In the band £110,001 - £120,000 6 7
In the band £120,001 - £130,000 . 6 5
In the band £130,001 - £140,000 4 3
In the band £140,001 - £150,000 3 3
In the band £150,001 - £160,000 2 2
In the band £160,001 - £170,000 1 -
In the band £170,001 - £180,000 2 1
In the band £180,001 - £190,000 1 1
In the band £190,001 - £200,000 2 2
In the band £200,001 - £210,000 1 1
in the band £210,001 - £220,000 1 -
In the band £230,001 - £240,000 : 1
In the band £260,001 - £270,000 : 1
In the band £290,001 - £300,000 1 -

Key management personnel, as listed on page 1, are those persons having authority and responsibility
a for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the entity. The remuneration for these individuals
totalled £2,076k (2023: £2,131k).

During the year, the following amounts were paid in respect of higher paid employees as shown above:

2024 2023
£000 £000
Pension contributions to defined contribution, teachers’ pension scheme
and local government pension schemes 4,242 2,870

During the year, 56 higher paid employees (2023: 48) participated in defined contribution schemes, 191
(2023: 138) participated in the Teachers' Pension Scheme (operated by the Teachers' Pension Agency),
1 (2023: 2) participated in the Local Government Pension Scheme and 11 (2023: 10) did not participate in
Charitable Company pension schemes.

Page 45

Docusign Envelope ID: BD09C264-82A2-495C-A3C0-70F 4B02DFCOC

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 AUGUST 2024

Payment to Trustees

During the year, no Trustees received any remuneration or other benefits (2023 - ENIL).

No Trustee, or person with a family or business connection with a Trustee, received remuneration in the
year, directly or indirectly, from either the Charitable Company or a company controlled by the
Charitable Company.

Expense reimbursements paid to 4 (2023: 2) Trustees during the year amounted to £3k (2023: £2k) and
all related to travel and subsistence costs.

8. Exceptional items

Exceptional costs incurred in school closures, mergers, acquisitions and disposals during the year ended
31 August 2024 amounted to ENIL (2023: £428k).

9. Intangible assets
Software
development
£000
Cost
At 1 September 2023 2,995
At 31 August 2024 2,995
Amortisation
At 1 September 2023 . 1,239
Charge for the year 300
At 31 August 2024 1,539
Netbook value
At 31 August 2024 - . 1,456
At 31 August 2023 1,756

All intangible fixed assets were used for charitable purposes.

Page 46

Docusign Envelope ID: BD09C264-82A2-495C-A3C0-70F4B02DFCOC

“FUNITED CHURCH ‘SCHOOL

‘ (A company limited by:gu

10.

Tangible fixed assets

Cost
At 1 September 2023
Additions

Transfers from other
trusts

Disposals

At 31 August 2024
Depreciation

At 1 September 2023

Charge for the year
On disposals

At 31 August 2024

Net book value

At 31 August 2024

At 31 August 2023

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 AUGUST 2024

Freehold
land and
buildings

£000

Long-term
leasehold

Fixtures Computer

property and fittings equipment

£000

2,173
31

Motor
vehicles
£000

847
61

720
86
(181)

000 £000
15,928 4,873
2,034 648
788 59
(625) (4,563)
18,122 4,017
9,435 4,514
1,388 435
(621) (4,563)
410,202 3,386
7,920 631
6,493 359

All tangible fixed assets were used for charitable purposes.

Total
£000

24,121
2,823

11,165
(2,369)

35,740

15,578
2,150
(2,365)

15,363

20,377

8,543

Page 47

Docusign Envelape iD: BD08C264-82A2-495C-A3C0-70F 4B02DFC0C

wos

41.

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 AUGUST 2024

Fixed asset investments

Valuation

At 1 September 2023
Fair value adjustments
Transfer from other trusts

At 31 August 2024

Investments at value comprise:

Listed investments
Money market deposits

All the fixed asset investments are held in the UK.

Subsidiary undertakings

Listed
investments
£000

210
16
465

691

2024 2023
£000 £000

641 165
50 45

691 210

At 31 August 2024, the Charitable Company held more than 20% of the following:

Holding

%
United Learning Trust* 100
Priory School (Banstead) Trust Limited* 100

*Limited by quarantee

Nature of the Class of share
business capital held

Education -
Dormant -

The registered office address of United Learning Trust and Priory School (Banstead) Trust Limited is

Worldwide House, Thorpe Wood, Peterborough, England, PE3 6SB.

Page 48

Docusign Envelope ID: BD09C264-82A2-495C-A3C0-70F4B02DFCOC

12.

13.

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 AUGUST 2024

Stocks

Catering stock
Finished goods and goods for resale

Debtors

Due within one year

Trade debtors

Amounts owed by Group undertakings
Other debtors

Prepayments and accrued income

2024
£000

135

135

2024
£000

30,885
22,460
2,794
3,985

60,124

2023
£000

2023
£000

35,247
25,778
1,555
2,575

65,155

Page 49

Docusign Envetope ID: BD09C264-82A2-495C-A3C0-70F 4B02DFCOC

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 AUGUST 2024

14. Creditors: Amounts falling due within one year

Trade creditors

Amounts owed to Group undertakings
Other taxation and social security
Other creditors

Accruals and deferred income

Amounts owed to Group undertakings are unsecured, interest free and repayable on demand.

Deferred income at 1 September 2023
Resources deferred during the year
Amounts released from previous periods

Deferred income as at 31 August 2024

Deferred income relates to invoices raised for multiple terms education.

2024
£000
4,263
6
2,272
12,716

103,197

122,454

—S————

2024
£000

41,405
99,991
(41,405)

99,991

2023
£000

3,568

2,037
12,327
44,637

62,575

2023
£000

38,049
41,405
(38,049)

41,405

Page 50

Docusign Envelope ID: BD09C-264-82A2-495C-A3C0-70F 4802DFCOC

15.

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 AUGUST 2024

Statement of funds

Statement of funds - current year

Income Expenditure

£000

£000

Transfers
in/out
£000

Gains/
(losses)
£000

Balance at
31 August
2024
£000

Funds a

146

46,725
(790)

Balance at 1
September
2023.
£000
Unrestricted
funds
Designated
funds
Designated 2.374
General funds
General Funds -
all funds 28,606
Pension reserve (809)
27,797
Total
Unrestricted
funds 30,171
Restricted
funds
Sponsorship
fund 1,729
Other donated
funds 707
2,436
Total of funds 32,607

Page 51

Docusign Envelope ID: BD09C264-82A2-495C-A3C0-70F4B02DFCOC

>

“
©

“UNITED CHURCH SCHOOLS TRUS

imited -by guarantee) 5

5

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 AUGUST 2024

Statement of funds (continued)

Designated funds are accumulated surpluses from prior years available for use by the School that
generated the funds. In response to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic the Charitable Company
transferred £4 million of general funds to designated funds during 2020 to be used in support of those
families at our independent schools who found themselves unable to pay school fees as a result of the
pandemic. The fund continues to be used to support families who face financial hardship.

The Sponsorship fund has been formed to gather together the external donations received towards the
Charitable Company's support for the academies of United Learning Trust.

Other donated funds include a number of individual donations towards specific building and other projects
within the Group.

The transfer from other donated funds to designated funds represents a change in the classification of
funds available for the benefit of the Godolphin school.

Page 52

15.

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 AUGUST 2024

Statement of funds (continued)

Statement of funds - prior year

Income Expenditure

£000

£000

Transfers
in/out
£000

Gains/
(losses)
£000

Balance at
31 August

2023
£000

191

Balance at
1 September
2022
£000
Unrestricted
funds
Designated
funds
Designated
Funds - all funds 2,659
General funds
General Funds -
all funds 24,556
Pension reserve (1,125)
23,431
Total
Unrestricted
funds 26,090
Restricted
Sponsorship
fund 1,729
Other donated
funds 714
2,443
Total of funds 28,533

144,154

(140,199)

Page 53

Docusign Envelope ID: BD08C264-82A2-495C-A3C0-70F4B02DFCOC

“ UNITED CHURCH SCHOOLS TRUST a
. (A company limited:by guarantee)".
cu Se ee ge fox ete ge ey aan

16.

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 AUGUST 2024

Analysis of net assets between funds

Analysis of net assets between funds - current year

Tangible fixed assets
Intangible fixed assets

Fixed asset investments
Current assets

Creditors due within one year
Pension scheme liability

Total

Analysis of net assets between funds - prior year

Tangible fixed assets
Intangible fixed assets

Fixed asset investments
Current assets

Creditors due within one year
Pension scheme liability

Total

Restricted Unrestricted

funds funds

2024 2024

- 20,377

- 1,456

440 251

2,441 149,066
- (122,454)
- (790)

2,881 47,906
=a Oe

Restricted Unrestricted
funds funds
2023 2023

- 8,543
- 1,756
- 210
2,436 83,046
- (62,575)
- (809)

2,436 30,171

Total
funds
2024

20,377
1,456
691
151,507
(122,454)
(790)

50,787

Total
funds
2023

8,543
1,756
210
85,482
(62,575)
(809)

32,607

Page 54

Ae

TED CHUR

17.

18.

19.

20.

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 AUGUST 2024

Reconciliation of net movement in funds to net cash flow from operating activities

2024 2023
£000 £000
Net income for the year (as per Statement of Financial Activities) 18,307 3,949
Adjustments for: .
Depreciation and amortisation charges 2,450 1,863
Interest paid 849 662
(Increase)/decrease in stocks (131) 1
Decrease/(increase) in debtors ; 6,235 (6,037)
Increase in creditors 55,502 4,017
Revaluation of fixed asset investments (16) 6°
Profit((loss) on disposal of fixed assets 4 (1)
Defined benefit pension scheme cost less contributions payable (145) (110)
Funds transfered from other charities (9,100) -
Net cash provided by operating activities 73,955 4,350
Analysis of cash and cash equivalents
2024 2023
£000 £000
Cash in hand 91,248 20,323
Analysis of changes in net debt
At1
September At 31
2023 Cash flows August 2024
£000 £000 £000
Cash and cash equivalents 20,323 70,925 91,248

Contingent liabilities

At 31 August 2024, the Charitable Company was party to cross-guarantees on bank loans and overdrafts
of the parent undertaking totalling £10,000k (2023: £10,000k).

Page 55

Docusign Envelope ID: BD09C264-82A2-495C-A3C0-70F 4B02DFCOC

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 AUGUST 2024

Capital commitments
There were no capital commitments at 31 August 2024 or 31 August 2023.

Acquired operations

On 1 May 2024, United Church Schools Trust acquired the trade and certain assets and liabilities of the
former The Godolphin School for £NIL consideration. The fair values at the acquisition date of each class

of assets and liabilities were as follows:

Book value
£000
Fixed assets
Tangible fixed assets 6,888
Investments 464
7,352
Current assets
* Debtors 1,204
Cash 642
1,846
Creditors
Creditors due within one year (3,762)
Creditors due in more than one year (612)
(4,374)
Total identifiable net assets 4,824

Fair value
£000

11,164
464
11,628

1,204
642

1,846

(3,762)
(612)

(4,374)

9,100

The net assets acquired were held across unrestricted funds (£8,660k) and restricted funds (£440k).

The impact of acquired operations on the Statement of Financial Activities since acquisition is as follows:

Income fram donations and legacies
Income from charitable activies

Total

£000
148

2,595

Expenditure on charitable activites (3,751)
(1,008)

Page 56

. “UNITED CHURCH SCHOOLS TRUST
(A’company limited by guarante

ee

23.

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 AUGUST 2024

Pension commitments

The Charitable Company operates defined contribution schemes for the benefit of its employees. The
assets of the schemes are managed and held externally on behalf of the scheme members in funds
independent from those of the Charitable Company. Employer contributions payable to the schemes
during the year amounted to £1.8m (2023: £1.5m). Employee and employer contributions payable to the
schemes at the Balance Sheet date amounted to £0.2m (2023: £0.2m) and are included within creditors.

The Charitable Company operates two defined benefit pension scheme: the Teachers' Pension Scheme
for England and Wales (TPS) for academic and related staff, and the Local Government Pensions
Scheme (LGPS) for non-teaching staff of one schaol, which is managed by the Local Authority.

The latest actuarial valuation of the TPS related to the period ended 31 March 2020 and of the LGPS 31
March 2022.

Contributions amounting to £1.5m were payable to the schemes at 31 August 2024 (2023: £1.2m) and are
included within creditors.

The Charitable Company also has an unfunded defined benefit pension scheme which is provided for in
the financial statements.

Provisions for unfunded pensions included within the total defined benefit pension scheme liability
amounted to £0.8m (2023: £0.8m). The current service cost amounted to £NIL (2023: £NIL) and actuarial
losses recognised through other comprehensive income amounted to £0.1m (2023: £0.2m). Benefits paid
during the year amounted to £0.1m (2023: £0.1m).

The current mortality assumptions in respect of unfunded pensions include sufficient allowance for future
improvements in mortality rates. The assumed life expectations on the retirement age of 65 are between
19-21 years. The discount rate applied in calculating the obligation is 4.90%, with future pension increase
and inflation being 2.70%.

Teachers' Pension Scheme

The Teachers’ Pension Scheme (TPS) is a statutory, contributory, defined benefit scheme, governed by

. the Teachers’ Pension Scheme Regulations 2014. Membership is automatic for full-time teachers. All

teachers have the option to opt-out of the TPS following enrolment.

The TPS is an unfunded scheme to which both the member and employer makes contributions, as a
percentage of salary - these contributions are credited to the Exchequer. Retirement and other pension
benefits are paid by public funds provided by Parliament.

Valuation of the Teachers’ Pension Scheme

The Government Actuary, using normal actuarial principles, conducts a formal actuarial review of the TPS
in accordance with the Public Service Pensions (Valuations and Employer Cost Cap) Directions 2014
published by HM Treasury every 4 years. The aim of the review is to specify the level of future
contributions. Actuarial scheme valuations are dependent on assumptions about the value of future costs,
design of benefits and many other factors. The latest actuarial valuation of the TPS was carried out as at
31 March 2022. The valuation report was published by the Department for Education on 27 October 2023,
with the SCAPE rate, set by HMT, applying a notional investment return based on 1.7% abave the rate of
CPI.

The key elements of the valuation and subsequent consultation are:

Page 57

by

Docusign Envelope ID: BD09C264-82A2-495C-A3C0-70F 4B02DFCO0C

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
‘FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 AUGUST 2024

23. Pension commitments (continued)

« Employer contribution rates set at 28.68% of pensionable pay (including a 0.08% administration levy).
This is an increase of 5% in employer contributions and the cost control result is such that no change
_ in member benefits is needed.
.© total scheme liabilities (pensions currently in payment and the estimated cost: of future benefits) for
service to the effective date of £262,000 million and notional assets (estimated futUre contributions
- together with the notional investments held at the valuation date) of £222,200 million, giving a notional
- past service deficit of £39,800 million. - n .
The result of this valuation will be implemented from 1 April 2024 The next valuation result is due to be
implemented from 1 April 2028.

The employer's pension. costs paid to TPS in the year amounted to £11.6m (2023: £10: Om).”

’ A copy of the valuation report and supporting documentation is on, the Teachers’ Pensions website
(https:/Awww.teacherspensions.co.uk/news/employers/2023/1 OWvaluation-resutt. aspx). .

Under the definitions set out in FRS 102, the TPS is an unfunded multiempioyer bension scheme. The
Charitable Company has accounted for its contributions to the scheme as if it were a defined contribution ~
scheme. The Charitable Company has set out above the information available on the scheme.

Local Government Pension Scheme Spare
—
The Charitable Company is one of several employing bodies included within the Local Government

-* : Pension Scheme (LGPS)., . ‘

The LGPS is a funded defined benefi it scheme, with the assets held in separate trustee administered
funds. Contributions to the scheme are determined by qualified actuaries on the basis of triennial
valuations using the projected unit method.

The total employer's contribution made for the year ended 31 August 2024 was £49k (2023: £55k). The
+ @ agreed contribution rates for future years are 21.4 - 22.0 per cent for employers and 5.5 - 12.5 per cent for
“.+ employees.

Ruling on amendment of Contracted out Salary Related pension schemes

. The Virgin Media Ltd v NTL: Pension Trustees I! decision, handed down by the High Court 16 June 2023,
considered the implications for section 37 of the Pension Schemes Act 1993. In a judgement delivered
July 2024, the Court of Appeal unanimously upheld the decision of the High Court and the impact of the
decision is likely to be that schemes who made amendments without getting the required certification from
the actuary will have additional liabilities. This consequently impacts the financial statements (defined
benefit pension obligation) of the sponsoring employer. There are plans in place by the Government
Actuatial. Department to review the potential implications, but vat the current time iti is not possible to
estimate the potential impact, if any, on the Schemes.

Page 58

e™

Docusign Envelope ID: BD09C264-82A2-495C-A3C0-70F 4B02DFCOC.

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 AUGUST 2024

23. Pension commitments (continued)
Principal actuarial assumptions at the Balance sheet date (expressed as weighted averages):

At 31 At 31 August

August 2024 2023

% %

Discount rate 4,90 5.40
Future salary increases 4.10 4.30
Future pension increases : 2.70 2.90
Inflation assumption 2.60 2.80

At 31 At 37 August

ee ee eee eee ~~ eee + + -- -— — — August 2024.- _ -. 2023 -
Mortality rates (in years)
- for a male aged 65 now 21.0 21.0
- at 65 for a male aged 45 now 22.2 22.2
- for a female aged 65 now 23.5 23.4
- at 65 for a female aged 45 now 25.3 25.2

The Company's share of the assets in the scheme was:

At 31 Af 37 August

August 2024 2023

£000 £000

Equities ; 4,397 4,213
Other bonds 9 -

Government bonds : 9 35

Property 784 827

Cash 129 52

Other 3,890 3,577

Total market value of LGPS assets . . 9,218 8,704

The actual return on scheme assets was £644k (2023: (£80k)).

Page 59

Docusign Envelope ID: BD09C264-82A2-495C-A3C0-70F4BO2DFCOC

23.

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 AUGUST 2024 -

Pension commitments (continued) .

The amounts recognised in the Statement of Financial Activities are as follows (for both the LGPS and

unfunded pension scheme):

2024
£000
Current service cost : (37)
Interest cost : : (309)
Interest income vs : a . 467.
Interest on the effect of the asset ceiling : {157)
Administrative expenses . . (2)
Total amount recognised in the Statement of Financial Activities i (38)
Movements in the present value of the défined benefit obligation were as follows: -
2024
. £000"
Opening defined benefit obligation . a ‘ . 6,608
Current service cost : an : ; 37
"Interest cost oo , 4 309
Contributions by scheme participants > 13
Benefits paid-LGPS  - cole . (190)
Benefits paid - unfunded obligation ~ . - a 35)
Actuarial losses/(gains) ~ 310
Closing defined benefit obligation 0 + 6,952

Movements in the fair value of the Company's share of scheme assets were as follows:

2024

: ; , “ €000
Opening fair value of scheme assets ~ , . 8,704
Interest on assets . : : 467
Actual return less interest: a - . ; 477
Contributions by employer . . 49
Contributions by Scheme participants . 13
Benefits paid (190)
Administration expenses . (2)
Closing fair value of scheme assets — 9,218

2023
£000
(64)
(300)
381

(2)

15

2023
£000
8,212
64,
300
19
(240)
(121)
(1,626)

6,608

2023
£000
8,952
381
(461)
55

19
(240)
(2)

8,704

‘Page 60 .

vs 4

Docusign Envelope ID: BD09C264-82A2-495C-A3C0-70F4B02DFCOC

UNITED CHURCH SCHOOLS TRUST

“*(& company limitéd by.guarantee)..

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 AUGUST 2024

23. Pension commitments (continued)

The Charitable Company expects to contribute £49k to the LGPS in 2024.

Amounts for the current and previous period are as follows:

2024 2023
£000 £000
Defined benefit pension schemes
Defined benefit obligations (including unfunded pension deficit) (6,952) (6,608)
LGPS assets 9,218 8,704
Unrecognised asset (3,056) (2,905)
Net deficit (790) (809)
Experience adjustments on LGPS and unfunded liabilities (310) 1,626
Experience adjustments on LGPS assets 177 (461)
2024 2023
£000 £000
Unfunded pension scheme liability (790) (809)
Total (790) (809)

Page 61

lt is
& ig

Docusign Envelope ID: BD09C264-82A2-495C-A3C0-70F 4B02DFCOC

UNITED CHURCH SCHOOLS TRUST *

: ~“¢ company limited By gu antée)

tt ate

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 AUGUST 2024

24. Operating lease commitments

At 31 August 2024 the Company had commitments to make future minimum lease payments under non-
cancellable operating leases as follows:

2024 2023
£000 £000

Amounts payable: Land and buildings

Within 1 year 327 327
Between 1 and 5 years 827 981
After more than 5 years 1,238 1,410
2,392 2,718
2024 2023
£000 £000

Amounts payable: Other
Within 1 year 1,344 1,280
Between 1 and 5 years 1,428 1,878
87 98

After more than 5 years

Total 2,859 3,256

25. Directors’ indemnities

In accordance with normal commercial practice, the Charitable Company has purchased insurance to
protect Directors and officers from claims arising from negligent acts, errors or omissions occurring whilst
on school business. The insurance provides cover up to £2,000,000 on any one claim and the cost for the
year ended 31 August 2024 was £NIL (2023: ENIL). The cost of this insurance is included in the total

insurance cost.

7 Page 62

m4

Docusign Envelope ID: BD09C264-82A2-495C-A3C0-70F 4B02DFCOC

,UNITED CHURCH SCHOOLS TRUST
(A company limited by guarantcc) ~"

cmon Penna)

26.

27.

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 AUGUST 2024

Related party transactions
United Learning Ltd is the sole member of United Church School Trust (UCST).

During the year, United Learning Ltd charged interest totalling £847k (2023: £743k) and rent totalling
£3.1m (2023: £2.2m) to the Charitable Company.

UCST is the sole member of United Learning Trust (ULT).

The Charitable Company provided central services to ULT. The total amount charged during the year
totalled £16.2m (2023: £13.8m) and was computed so as to equal the actual costs incurred on a per
pupil basis.

At the year end date, balances amounting to £22.5m (2023: £25.8m) were due to the Charitable
Company, and balances amounting to £6k (2023: £6k) were due from the Charitable Company to other
entities in the Charitable Group of which United Learning Ltd is the ultimate parent. These balances arise
as a result of direct recharges of costs where resources are centrally procured, with the underlying
transactions not therefore representing related party transactions.

Brake Bros Ltd - a company in which a Trustee of both United Learning Ltd and ULT is Chief Financial
Officer. The Charitable Company purchased products from Brake Bros Ltd totalling £5,317 during the
period for cash consideration. £160 was due from Brake Bros Ltd at 31 August 2024. The Charitable
Company made the purchases at arms’ length in accordance with its financial regulations, which the
Trustee neither participated in, nor influenced.

There have been no other transactions with related parties that require disclosure under either FRS 102
or Charities SORP (FRS 102) (effective 1 January 2019).

Ultimate parent undertaking and controlling party

The Board considers that the ultimate and immediate parent undertaking of the Charitable Company is
United Learning Ltd (Company number: 00018582) by virtue of the fact that it is the sole member and
therefore has the ability to appoint or remove trustees. The principal objects of United Learning Ltd are the
same as those of the Charitable Company.

In the opinion of the Directors, there is no ultimate controlling party.
The largest group of undertakings for which group accounts have been drawn up is that headed by United

Learning Ltd. Copies of the group accounts can be obtained from Worldwide House, Thorpe Wood,
Peterborough, PE3 6SB.

Page 63

Docusign Envelope ID: BD09C264-82A2-495C-A3C0-70F 4B02DFCOC

» NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 AUGUST 2024

28. Financial instruments

2024 - 2023
Financial assets
Financial assets measured at fair value - 691 210
Financial assets measured at amortised cost 147,135 82,632
147,826 82,842
. & :
° 2024: - = 2023

Financial liabilities

Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost . 17,956 16,979

Page 64

