ANNUAL REPORT
& FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023- 24

OUR MISSION IS TO

EDUCATE
ADVANCE KNOWLEDGE

SERVE THE COMMON GOOD


Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023- 24

Contents

ial Statet

34.

Statement by the Directors in Performance of their Statutory Duties
in Accordance with $172(3) Companies Act 2006 ee BS.

Independent Auditor's Report to Board of Governors
of Uni ity of Winchester

Statement of Princig pal Accounting Policies cette

Notes to the Financial Statements


Annuat Report and Financial Statements 2023- 24

An introduction:

The Chair & Vice-Chancellor

The context for this year is one of challenge and change across the globe. The
uncertainty and anxiety caused by international conflict, the disharmony and discord
apparent in our own society and the practical difficulties and worry of a significantly
increased cost of living have impacted on our community at the University of Winchester
as, indeed, they have done on communities across the country.

The higher education sector as a whole has faced
a series of challenges arising from this context.
We continue to work within the constraints of fixed
tuition fees, rising costs, declining international and
static home student numbers.

There is no doubt that since its foundation in

1840, the University has faced many significant
challenges, including two world wars and many
global financial crises. When facing these
challenges, its response has been always to adapt
to ensure its long-term sustainability and success.
This year, we have responded by making in-year
cost savings wherever possible, and to lay the
foundation for a more streamlined and efficient
way of working, which will significantly reduce
costs in the coming years. This includes a review
and refresh of the structure of our whole academic
credit framework, across every academic discipline
- not an easy task in a busy academic year, but a
challenge to which colleagues have risen
admirably.

We have also worked hard on starting to deliver
the University’s new strategic plan, putting in place
a series of enabling strategies to ensure that this is

a whole University commitment. Our focus for this
year and next will be on transforming how we teach
and inspire our students and transforming how

we operate and work together. This year we have
focused on ‘doing things differently’, reviewing and
streamlining practice and procedures which have
become unwieldy or unnecessary.

We have refocused on our core mission,

which includes the commitment to provide
transformational education for our students.
Although the context is very difficult, we have also
celebrated some great successes during the year.

Most importantly, we celebrated the achievements
and hard work of almost 3.000 students completing
their degrees, many of whom graduated in October
in the magnificent surroundings of Winchester
Cathedral. We were delighted that our initial
teacher training provision. in both primary and
secondary phases, was again considered to be
‘outstanding’ by Ofsted. The inspectors hightighted
the University's excellent pastoral care and high-
quality training, the highly ambitious curriculum
delivered by highly credible and expert teams and
our unfaltering commitment to inclusive practice.

Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023- 24

This year, we have also welcomed our first cohort
of midwifery students, as we continue to deliver

our commitment to support the NHS to develop

its workforce of the future. We work very closely
with NHS organisations across the region, and

we are grateful for their enthusiastic support. We
are delighted that our apprenticeship provision
continues to grow and develop, particularly in health
and social work.

Phase 1 of the redevelopment of the Martial Rose
Library. funded by the Office for Students, has been
completed. This will provide outstanding library
facilities and social learning space for our students.
Sustainability has been at the heart of the

project, ensuring that the refurbished building is
significantly more energy efficient, and that it is
ready for further improvements when funding
becomes available. W/e have begun work on Phase
2 of the project, which will give our students three
floors of wonderful learning resources and study
space. The work is due to be completed at the end
of the next academic year.

This year has also seen the installation of our

new Chancellor, Hugh Dennis, and our three new
Pro Chancellors, Alastair Bruce, Maggie Carver and
Mohamed Bakhaty. We are grateful to each of them

for giving up their time to serve the University
community. We are looking forward to our first
graduation ceremonies with this wonderful
ceremonial and ambassadorial team.

We would like to thank colleagues from across the
University for their hard work and dedication during
the academic year. Thank you too to our many
partners across the region. who work so closely
with us to help us in our educational mission, and
whose needs we will continue to endeavour to
serve, by producing outstanding graduates, ready
for the world of work.

Finally, thank you to our governors, who bring to
their role their expertise and enthusiasm, working
closely with the University’s executive leadership
team to help to navigate the very real challenges
that the higher education sector is facing in the
current climate.

With continued effort, focus and change, we

are confident that Winchester will meet those
challenges and continue to succeed in its mission
to educate, advance knowledge and serve the
common good.

5

CC aaeaeseeereYY eee

Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023- 24


To Educate

We believe that education transforms our
students and through them, it transforms

their families, communities and the wider
world.

At the heart of our mission is the commitment to
provide a transformational educational experience
for our students. This year, after extensive
consultation with staff and students across the
University, we launched our Education and Student
Experience Enabling Strategy which will help us to
deliver our Strategic Plan. It will help us to transform
how we teach and inspire our students.

The Education and Student Experience Enabling
Strategy sets out our plan to develop our students’
curiosity, confidence, and capabilities, through
imaginative courses and inspiring teaching.
Curiosity is embodied in a love of learning, the
energy and enthusiasm to discover new ideas, and
the desire to continue learning. Confidence is about
believing in ourselves, and the wider belief that we
can each, through individual and shared endeavour,
make a meaningful difference in the world.
Capabilities are the

expert skills that our students will develop to be
successful in their chosen careers and to lead lives
of meaning and purpose.

Our ambition is to develop a Winchester student
experience distinguished by its quality and
consistency. Every student should enjoy an active,
dynamic and life-changing learning experience
which challenges them to develop intellectually
and is underpinned by the unique characteristics
and requirements of each subject discipline.

We will develop our courses to be the communities
in which the student experience is embedded,

with enrichment, employability and support fully
‘integrated in every course. A key focus for the
University is ensuring that we equip our graduates
with the skitls to lead successful and meaningful
lives. This includes offering stimulating and
relevant courses to provide intellectual stretch,
whitst embedding the skills that our students need
to be successful in employment and beyond.

Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023- 24

The next five years will see the expansion of our
professional education and postgraduate taught
provision - responding to regional needs, working
in partnership with employers - and with an
unwavering focus on quality.

Professional education, responding to
regional needs

The University has a particular focus on
professional education, designing and delivering
courses that meet the needs of employers and
prepare our students to be work-ready and
successful in their careers. This is particularly
notable in the number of students who graduate
each year from courses that lead directly into the
professions and support our public services. In the
last academic year, nearly 700 students graduated
with professional degrees such as nursing,
teaching, social work, physiotherapy and policing.

New midwifery courses launched

Responding to regional NHS workforce needs

and with full approval from the Nursing and
Midwifery Council, the University welcomed the
first cohort of students onto its new BSc Midwifery
programme and Midwifery Degree Apprenticeship.


Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023- 24

The new courses were commended by the Nursing
Midwifery Council for the 360-degree holistic
development of the curriculum and the University
of Winchester was recognised for its exceptional
student support, including its focus on wellbeing.

The panel commended the collaborative way in
which the programme was developed, noting that
the input from people who have used maternity
services, has been valued, listened to and included
within the programme.

The approval panel also praised the team for the
involvement of such a wide range of stakeholders
from hospitals and maternity services in the south-
east and south-west regions.

The addition of a degree apprenticeship pathway for
midwifery, the only one of its kind in the region, was
particularly welcomed by the NHS. The University
aims to increase equality of opportunity, in line with
its Access and Participation Plan, by accepting a
range of equivalents to A levels in the entry criteria
for the course.

As part of this work, in July 202 4, the University
hosted three successful taster days for those
interested in studying for a Midwifery Degree
Apprenticeship. The days were attended by
approximately 50 maternity support workers from
six different NHS Trusts - Hampshire Hospitals
Foundation Trust, Isle of Wight NHS Trust, Oxford
University Hospital, Salisbury NHS Foundation Trust.
University Hospital Southampton Foundation Trust
and University Hospital Dorset - as well as college
students taking health-related level 3 courses at
Andover College and Queen Mary's Basingstoke.

The Taster Days set out to inspire people froma
diverse range of backgrounds into a profession
which seeks to represent the population.

Ofsted Outstanding

The University's primary and secondary teacher
training has once again been rated ‘Outstanding’
by Ofsted in March 202 4, after also receiving an
‘Outstanding’ in its previous Ofsted inspection in
2017. The University was awarded Outstanding
across all areas for its quality of education and
training, leadership and management, and overall
effectiveness.

The Inspectors’ report says the University develops
students who have a considerable breadth of
confidence and competence to launch their
teaching careers, and who will nurture pupils’
“curiosity and wonder".

It adds that trainees are well prepared for their
careers in the classroom thanks to the highly
ambitious curriculum, supportive staff, and
seamtess integration of campus-based training and
teaching placements. It states that when teaching
students graduate from the University “they are
exceedingly well prepared to teach in a variety of
contexts” with the "knowledge and skills to meet the
demands of a teaching career.”

The Ofsted team visited the University in March
and as part of a rigorous inspection process. visited
local schools where Winchester students were
undertaking placements, meeting headteachers
and mentors as wellas trainees.

According to Ofsted, the University’s Primary
Education courses are “highly ambitious” and
“meticulously constructed”. Students are taught by
experts who champion every subject, and there is a
firm commitment to inclusive practice.

The inspectors described Winchester's PGCE
Secondary teacher training programme as
“inspirational” and its leaders as "relentless in their
drive to ensure that the quality of education and
training trainees receive is exceptional.”

Student & Graduate Success

The University is proud of its consistently high
graduate employability rates. In the 2023 Gr aduate
Outcome Survey, Winchester was ranked in the
Top 10 universities in the country for graduate
success, measured by the number progressing
into employment or further study. This is the result
of an institution-wide approach to employability:
embedding it within the curriculum: providing
multiple opportunities for all students to engage

in a range of placement and work-based learning
initiatives; building on our extensive partnerships with
employers across the region.

Creative graduates’ success

Two Creative Writing graduates from the University
of Winchester collaborated on a new picture book
to teach primary schoolchildren about the hazards
of air pollution. A Clean Air Cycle to School by Emily
Jordan and Katt Grover has been shortlisted in the
Benefitting Society category at the Green Gown
Awards, sponsored by UKRI. The awards recognise

exceptional sustainability initiatives undertaken by
universities and colleges across the world.

The book came about after Southampton City
Council approached the University for help in
creating a book, as part of its ‘Clean Air Project’, to
explain to children and parents what air pollution
is, where it comes from and how they can travel to
school sustainably while avoiding exposure to air
pollution.

Judges described the University of Winchester's
entry as: “A great project which other institutions
could use to engage local schools. An initiative

Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023- 24

combining student engagement and practical
experience with knowledge share and education of
children in environmental issues and the impact they
can have through reducing air pollution by cycling to
school.”

Mentoring supporting student success

The University runs a highly successful mentoring
scheme for its students, as part of its Access &
Participation Plan, to support graduates’ progression
after university. The mentoring programme matches
students to industry professionals to help improve
students’ employability and career readiness.

The 2023/2 4 programme had 52 mentors from
industry matched with the same number of final

year students. Mentors came from 47 organisations
including the Foreign and Commonwealth Office,
Ministry of Defence, Solent Mind, Hampshire
Constabulary, St. John's Winchester, and the Maritime
& Coastguard Agency. Nineteen mentors were
University of Winchester alumni.

Creating workforce-ready dietitians with
outstanding student support

A unique programme at the University supports
dietitians to gain firsthand experience on NHS wards,
improving their employability, skills and confidence
dealing with patients from the start of their studies.

The programme provides relevant structured
experience as mealtime assistants over breakfast,
lunch or dinner at the hospital. just five minutes’ walk
from campus. The students’ university timetable is
built around this placement, and

they are well supported by academic staff. From
preliminary workshops to regular reflective practice.
assessments and feedback on the wards, and a
range of resources developed by the first students
to undertake the placements, volunteering is helping
students become ready for work.

Additional training, in areas such as being ‘Dementia
Friendly’, gives students more skills needed for the
workplace. The scheme is so successful, half of the
first cohort have job offers months before graduating
and it is now being rolled out to Winchester's
physiotherapy students.

9

eee eeeeF}rpVro9)

Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023- 24

To Advance Knowledge

Our mission to advance knowledge
is brought alive by the research and
knowledge exchange work of our
colleagues, and the University’s new
Research and Innovation Enabling
Strategy.

During the current academic year, we have made
good progress in enhancing research infrastructure
and governance, researcher induction and
development.

Case Study - Holocaust Education

Dr Alasdair Richardson specialises in Holocaust
Education, specifically how people deal emotionally
with this sensitive topic. The University has had an
ongoing partnership with the Holocaust Education
Trust for over ten years, most recently completing
an evaluation of the Lessons from Auschwitz
Project. producing an 86,000- word report looking
at students’ experiences on the programme.

The University has atso secured funding to deliver
a separate project looking at the experiences of
students in Scotland specifically, which is in its
planning stages. Alasdair also hopes to work with
the Holocaust Education Trust and Generation

2 Generation to look more widely at the role of
testimony in the future, particularly when survivors
are no longer here. The University has done some
initial consultancy looking at virtual testimony

and using artificial intelligence and virtual reality
technology to have interactive recorded testimony
at the sites that the survivors have spoken about.

Case Study - Hampshire Stroke Clinic

Professor James Faulkner worked with the
Hampshire Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust and
Hobbs Rehabilitation to establish a programme
called the HELP (Health Enhancing Lifestyle
Programme) Hampshire Stroke Clinic in 2019 to
support stroke patients and continues to work
together to help stroke patients in the region.
The project team published a paper in 2022
showing positive perceptions from patients on
the programme citing expressions of gratitude,
appreciation, and personal progress. Further data
is currently being pulled together for a potential
research paper later this year.

The Clinic is driven by civic responsibility, and it
has helped stroke patients within the community.
The project also demonstrates how the University

can contribute to high-impact research that can
lead to benefit. It also has learning and teaching
potential for students at the University through
voluntary opportunities and placements. The project
has generated interest from other NHS Trusts and
prompted discussions with Wessex, the Integrated
Stroke Delivery Network. and a pilot programme in
the pipeline with Maidstone and Tunbridge Wells
NHS Trust in Kent.

Graduates advancing knowledge

Jake Hawkins, an alumnus of the University and
lecturer for the Film Production degree, has founded
his own video company specialising in 3D motion
design and animation. Using his industry insight.
Jake is able to introduce students to the latest
developments in cinematic and content creation,
leading to the launch of a student-led creative
agency.

The agency will be partnering with external clients
as well as industry professionals, providing expertise
and knowledge for students. KPIs are likely to
include income generation and building up a
database of the students who have been involved.
Such a database will be beneficial to the industry

in accessing talent. to the students in accessing
opportunities, and to the University in assessing how
graduates progress professionally.

Supporting the Nuffield Council on Bioethics

Dr Emma Nottingham is one of the nation’s leading
experts on children’s rights and ethical law. The
University has recently supported the Nuffield
Council on Bioethics, with Emma as a law and ethics
representative, to help with their report around
critically ill children and their care, the
recommendations of which were put to UK
Parliament in October 2023.

Emma supports the work of the Institute of Medical
Ethics and their research committee by forming part
of their network of medical ethics experts.

Annual Report and Financiat Statements 2023- 24

She also sits on the Clinical Ethics Committee in
Southampton, a group that supports doctors with
difficult, ethical issues. In the realm of children's
rights in the online world, the University is supporting
the 5Rights Foundation on a project highlighting
issues in Edtech. The University also works alongside
other academic institutions to research different
perspectives on online issues such as sharenting.

The Winchester District Creative
& Cultural Strategy

Throughout the year, the University has continued to
work collaboratively with a range of regional
partners. Over the last 12 months the University's
Knowledge Exchange team have been working
closely with Winchester City Council in its
development of a Creative & Cultural Strategy,
including supporting a series of stakeholder
workshops.

The University has worked closely with the City
Council to provide leadership and momentum to the
delivery of this strategy.

3


Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023- 24

To Serve The Common Good

The University of Winchester has a long
history of being a driver of social mobility,
providing access to higher education

for those with the ability and ambition,
whatever their background:

+ 40% of its students are the first-in-family to
attend higher education.

* 30% come from low-income households
(under £25k).

+ 26% have a declared disability

+ 21% are from the most deprived
neighbourhoods with lower rates of access,
success and progression.

+ 96% of entrants come from state schools

In July 202 4, the University was named as a finalist
for the University of the Year Award in the annual
UK Social Mobility Awards. The Awards were
established to recognise and celebrate forward-
thinking organisations that are actively creating
positive social change in their communities, by
embedding social mobility initiatives into their work.

The awards provide valuable recognition for
organisations who are leading the way in social
mobility. Since their launch in 2017, the SOMOs have
become an important platform for promoting social
mobility in the UK and have attracted entries from
leading organisations across the country, spanning
multiple sectors. The University has been shortlisted
for its work in providing educational opportunities

to children of people in our armed forces, Gypsy.
Traveller, Roma, Showmen and Boater children,
refugees, and those with a background in care,
ensuring that nothing holds them back from
fulfilling their potential.

Supporting Care-Experienced Young People

Care leavers are around half as likely to go to
university than children on free school meals.
Around 14% of care experienced people under 19
enter university, compared to about 47% of their
peers overall.

The University's First Star Scholars programme
supports local young people in care who may

not engage with GCSEs, helping to improve their
ambition and aspiration. Since 2021, the University
has supported 26 care-experienced scholars in this
way. The first participants have now completed
school

and are being supported in post-16 education. The
programme includes regular on-campus monthly
sessions and an annual residential programme.

Winchester students act as buddies and provide
classroom support. This benefits both our students
and the programme's participants.

Through a partnership with the Unite Foundation we
have offered six care leavers, or people estranged
from their family, scholarships to provide rent-

free accommodation at the University for three
years, removing the need for guarantors. We also
guarantee an interview or offer of a place for all
care leavers, with a bursary available for travel and
other expenses.

Service Children Progression (SCiP) Alliance

Created by the University of Winchester in 2018, the
SCIP Alliance is a first-of-its-kind initiative bringing
together universities and schools to support the
children of forces families who are less likely to go
to university (participation rate 24% vs 43% general
population The Alliance provides resources for
practitioners working with service children. There are
now 13 UK Hubs and almost 1,000 members.

In 2023/34, the Alliance responded swiftly to the

Service Children’s Progression

@@O ALLIANCE

UNDER THE RADAR
SERVICE CHILDREN AND HIGHER
EDUCATION IN ENGLAND
PROFESSOR GRAEME ATHERTON
DR LIAM SATCHELL

Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023- 24

suggestion to leave service children out of the
measures used to assess widening access. A report,
researched and written by Winchester academics,
found that service children's disrupted lives put
them at a disadvantage. This underpinned our
lobbying for the Office for Students to recognise the
disadvantage faced by service children. As a result
of the report, it was announced that service children
would be included in its future monitoring measures.

Also during this year, the Alliance extended the
‘Thriving Lives’ toolkit to cover Further Education.
Underpinned by rigorous research and thoroughly
tested, the Thriving Lives Toolkit provides schools
and now FE colleges with a framework through
which to reflect on their practice. together with a set
of continuing professional development resources.

Leading work with Refugees

As one of the first Universities of Sanctuary,

the University has a history of supporting refugees
and responding to world events. In 2023- 24 we
supported two other universities to become a
University of Sanctuary, providing mentoring

and support. The University continued supporting
Ukrainian refugees. providing nine scholarships
including fee waivers and £1,000 bursary, plus
dedicated support and English tuition.

Ukrainians living locally via Homes for Ukraine

were invited to our English language for academic
study courses. The University continued to host

English for Speakers of Other Languages (ESOL)
courses for the community. Two refugees or
dependents of refugees were granted scholarships
covering all fees and worth up to £5.000/year for
additional costs. Since 2010, the University has
provided over 60 Sanctuary Awards to students

from 21 countries. 2B


Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023- 24

Environmental Sustainability

The University continues to make
progress in reducing its carbon footprint
and improving environmental
sustainability on campus.

In 2020 /21 we were awarded a grant of £3.12m
from the Public Sector Decarbonisation Scheme, for
the replacement of 35 gas boilers with low energy
air source heat pumps; a lighting upgrade to
replace existing older-style lighting with low energy
LEDs; an upgrade to the Building Management
System to optimise energy consumption in
buildings: and the installation of two large solar
photovoltaic arrays designed to produce on-site
electricity generation at peak times. This project
was completed in 2022/23.

The installation of heat pumps on campus have
seen a large reduction of 32% in gas consumption
since the installation in 2020 /21, but conversely
a 24% increase in electrical consumption over the
same period (see chart over page).

Overall absolute carbon emissions have reduced
for the University of Winchester by 44% since 2006/
07, meaning that we are ahead of target for
achieving our 55% reduction in carbon emissions by
2030 /31 (see chart over page).

Renewable Energy

The University has been using 100% zero carbon
electricity since 2008. Between August 2008

& March 2022 the University purchased 100%
renewable energy, backed by Renewable Energy
Guarantees of Origin (REGOs from wind, solar and/
or Hydro.

In April 2022 the Univer sity had to switch the
procurement of its electricity supply to a ‘Zero
Carbon for Business’ tariff, backed by 100% nuclear
generator declarations and zero carbon emissions.

This move away from renewable energy was due to
the high national demand of 100% rene wable

energy and limited supply of REGOs to cover this
demand. However, in April 2023 the University was
able to repurchase UK Renewable electricity, back
by REGOs meaning that the electrical supply is
100% rene wable once again.

The University also has solar panels installed
on nine of its buildings, generating approximately
3.2% of its total electrical consumption.

Fleet Vehicles

By the end of 2023/2 4, 81% of the University’s fleet
vehicles had been switched to electric vehicles as
part of our journey towards our target of net-zero
carbon emissions from fleet vehicles by the end of
2025/26.

This calculation has been based on fleet vehicles
only, not including grounds utility vehicles,
currently unsuitable for replacement by electric
vehicles.


Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023- 24

Total CO2 Emissions (Scope 1,2 & (known) 3)

nN
fe}
g
t
| i
| mmm Scope 1, 2 & (known) 3 Emissions <== Target Emissions
L ~ eee _
Electricity Generated & Emissions Avoided :
250000 _ 50 |
45 i
200000 —~— == - = Sf ——- 40 !
| 2 150000 - g \
i 2 o
, ~© 100000 !
' i
i 50000 -—-#——--—— --» - z - |
ae
fe} | . t
OF '
| yy i
t
e
dee ee eed

15

Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023- 24
Environmental Highlights 2023/24

Blackout

More than 20 students and staff joined a campus
Blackout event in November 2024. This annual
energy switch-off event takes place across King
Alfred and West Downs Quarters highlighting the
positive impact that small. collective switch-off
actions can have on the University's carbon footprint.
Teams of student volunteers, led by staff from the
Estates and Facilities department, walked around
the University and switched off non-essential small
power equipment left on that evening in office areas
and teaching rooms - including lights, computer
monitors, non-networked printers, mobile phone
chargers, and PC speakers. During the event 847 PC
monitors were switched off along with 75 lights and
82 windows shut.

Energy usage during the Blackout evening was
measured and compared to a comparable evening
to demonstrate the real savings. The results show
that a 5% energy reduction per year could be
achieved with just a few changes to the way we
work and switching off equipment that does not
need to be left on.

Nursing Uniform Swap Shop

Nursing students at the University set up a swap
shop for the reuse of uniform when no longer
needed and when they are graduating. As well as
reuse, there are often items received back which are
no longer able to be worn and beyond repair and
these are donated to the on-campus cloth bank,
helping to raise funds for the nearby Winchester
Hospice.

Green Flag Award

In July 2024, the University was detighted to be
awarded the prestigious Green Flag for the grounds
in the King Alfred Quarter.

The Green Flag Award scheme, managed by Keep

Britain Tidy, recognises and rewards well-managed

green spaces and the conservation of natural

features, wildlife and flora. Ours is one of just 30

univer sity campuses across the UK to earn a Green
ig Flag.


Facts & Figures

TOTAL INCOME
2023- 24

$84.1M

2022 -23

£85.6mM

CAPITAL EXPENDITURE
2023-24

F6.3M

2022 -23

SAIM

INTERNATIONAL FULL-TIME
POSTGRADUATE FEE INCOME

2023-24

£38M

2022 -23

F2.3M

Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023- 24

ACADEMIC STAFF (FTE)
2023-24

333

2022 -23

358

PROFESSIONAL SERVICE STAFF (FTE)
2023-24

478

2022 -23

508

EBITDA*
2023-24

FAAM

2022 -23

£5.2M

TOTAL STUDENT
NUMBERS (FTE)

2023-24

6,491

2022 -23

7,069

* EBITDA - earnings before interest. tax, depreciation and
amortisation {and adjusting for capital grants released
and changes to pension provision within staff osts as
reported by the Office or Students).

7

Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023- 24

Understanding the University's Risks

The University defines risk as the potential
effects of uncertainty on achieving objectives,
which can take the form of adverse
consequences or unexpected opportunities. As
with most institutions, risks are inherent in all
activities and the University accepts new risks in
pursuit of its strategic objectives.

Effective risk management is about ensuring all
significant, relevant risks are understood and prioritised
as part of the University's standard management
practice.

To create long-term value, we must anticipate and
manage the risks that will create threats for us and our
stakeholders, whilst capitalising on new opportunities
offered by an ever-changing world. To effectively
manage our risks, the University maintains a dialogue
with internal and external stakeholders.

The current risks are reported in the University's Risk

Register. which includes the most significant business
and sector risks, as well as those that are specific to the
University.

The Board of Governors has delegated authority to the
Risk and Audit Committee to oversee risk management,
including monitoring of the University's Risk Register.
This ongoing review enables us to identify material
issues that are most likely to affect value creation,
strategic objectives. service delivery and assets. We
undertake a systematic and methodical identification of
key risks, and we identify measures to mitigate them.

Whilst risk cannot be completely eliminated, the
approach of the Risk and Audit Committee is to be ‘risk
aware’ rather than ‘risk averse’, by accepting risks to
protect strategic objectives. Included in this Report is
the most recent update of our Risk Register with the
top 9 risks, presented to the Board of Governors on 3
July 202 4.

RK orion | , RISK MANAGEMENT
RK orion |

Failure to
adequately
respond

to external
financial
challenges

Financial
Sustainability

Re-prioritisation of sn of capital and revenue spending to
remove non-critical spends

r+ Where spend is required, review of all suppliers to
ensure best cost is being achieved

Efficiency review of all operational spend areas including
voluntary severance schemes for staff

Strategic focus with underpinning plans to drive growth
in academic provision with potential for growth

Integrated financial planning, forecasting and
performance reporting in place to achieve necessary
financial performance

Treasury Management Strategy Review

Failure to
manage
significant
impacts on the
University's

Business
Continuity

On-going regular internal and external cyber security
audits with actions plans

Minimum security requirements required for all new
software and hardware implementations

ability to deliver
core business
functions

|
i
Close working relationship with local and regional trade |
unions, both through formal and informal mechanisms

Business continuity working group undertaking exercises
to test and improve plans and response readiness {

Single points of reliance offset by strong deputy cover
and resilience training

Cyber
Security

Student
Recruitment

Security of
University
systems
and network
compromised
leading to

toss of critical
services and/or
loss or exposure
of sensitive data

a

Failure to recruit
the planned
number of
students

Compliance

Failure to
comply with
ongoing
conditions of
OfS registration

if
ee | core
| Student Failure to

1 Outcomes deliver student
outcomes and

experience that;

are acceptable |

to stakeholders |

‘

i

t

j

ee ee 7

Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023- 24

+ On-going regular internal and external cyber security

audits with actions plans

Minimum security requirements required for all new
software and hardware implementations, monitored and
managed through Governance Group

Management of core infrastructure conforms to good
practice

Plan in place moving to managed devices for ail
Internal cyber security team regularly upskilled

External support from sector partners JISC and contracted
experts provide on-going updates

Strategic Plan focused on Transformational approach to
the student experience

Refreshed student recruitment activities
Focused international recruitment strategy
Focused schools and colleges strategy
Strong presence in Apprenticeship provision

Development of online provision to support flexible
learning

Ongoing monitoring of changes to the OfS Conditions of
Registration
Ongoing updating of all compliance areas

Proactive inclusion of expected new requirements related
to harassment and sexual misconduct regulations

Ongoing engagement on data futures requirements

Guidance and training in place for colleagues and
students to manage the impact of emerging and evolving
technologies such as Artificial Intelligence on Academic
Integrity

+ — Regular monitoring of course performance with

improvements plans in place

University is a signatory to the Mental Health Charter with
a cross-institutional programme chaired by the Vice-
Chancellor

Multi-layered support system to identify and support
students with mental health challenges

Regular communication to colleagues alongside monthly
all staff meetings

Emergency regulations to support student progression
and completion if students are impacted by strike action

Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023- 24

Understanding the University's Risks

Threat of
Extremism

Sustainable
Improvement

Staff
Recrutiment
and
Retention

Failure to
manage the
threat of
radicalisation
and extremism
on campus

The risk that
Winchester
fails to deliver
sustainable
improvement
in the
underpinning
operations of
the University
that will facilitate
easier access
to critical data/
metrics

Failure to attract
and retain high
quality staff

S. Universityalicned with Government strategy tSC~«sd

University aligned with Government strategy

Annual compliance audit with Ofs review, advice and
information from Ofsted

Liaison with local constabulary and CTPSE, membership
of Hampshire Prevent Board

Safeguarding, Prevent and Mental Health in-person
training package/delivered as a rolling programme

to Faculties and Professional Services: reporting
mechanisms for raising concerns publicised, maintained
and regularly reviewed for effectiveness

ae ” eee aad

Strategic priorities identified through Strategic Plan
Strategic data analytics platform implemented

Focus on culture and people not systems to develop
changes

Close sector partnerships to collectively influence
vendors of key corporate systems

Co-creation of new People and Culture Strategy

Significant improvements implemented in recruitment
processes

Increase in pay between 5% and 11% in-year as part of
national pay bargaining and standard increments

Compelling case for change set-out and explained
allowing individuals to engage with proposals

Peer, Institutional and independent support available for
all colleagues

|
|
|


Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023- 24

Trade Union Facility Time

The Trade Union (Facility Time Publication The information below covers the relevant period
Requirements) Regulations 2017 require the University of 1 April 2023 - 31 March 2024 and includes the
to collate and publish, on an annual basis. a range of University’s recognised trade unions: UCU and
data on the amount and cost of facility time. UNISON.

RELEVANT UNION OFFICIAL

Number of employees who were relevant union officials during the period

Full-time equivalent employee number

PERCENTAGE OF TIME SPENT ON FACILITY TIME

0%

1% - 50%

51% - 99%

100%

PERCENTAGE OF PAY BILL SPENT ON FACILITY TIME

Total cost of facility time £58,118

Total pay bill (April 2023 to March 202 4) £50.3m

Percentage of the total pay bill spent on facility time’ 0.12%

PAID TRADE UNION ACTIVITIES

Time spent on paid trade union activities as a percentage of total paid facility
time”

* Catcutated as: (total cost of facility time / Lotal pay bill)

~* Catculated as: (total hours spent on paid trade union activities by relevant union officials during the relevant period
/ total paid facility time hours) x 100


Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023-24

Financial Review

The Financial Review puts the year in perspective and outlines our financial environment,
financial strategy, financial performance and our future outlook.

This year we report a deficit of £1.3m. compared to the £3.4m deficit in 2022/23. The reduction is due in large
part to the actuarial pension adjustments relating to our Local Government Pension Scheme (LGPS) and the
Universities Superannuation Scheme (USS). Typically, these would be charges in the Statement of
Comprehensive Income. However, due to increased investment returns on the pension fund assets. the
adjustments in this year have been credits. The 31% July 2023 £1.4m liability on the USS has been released in this
year, whilst the LGPS adjustments in 2023/24 are a credit of £714k. compared to a charge of £870k in 2022/23.
When these pension adjustments are excluded from the 2022/23 and 2023/24 figures, then this shows a small
increase in the operational deficit from £3.0m in 2022/23 to £3.5m in 2023/24.

This is a reflection of the significant financial challenges we currently face. In addition to the well-publicised
freezing of the main tuition fee of £9,250 since 2017. the reduction in student cohorts, not only in our first year,
but also feeding through into subsequent years. is resulting in reducing tuition fee income, fundamental to our
future financial sustainability. Reversal of this downward trend in student numbers, and a return to growth,
remains a key strategic focus.

To partially mitigate the effect of reduced income. expenditure continues to be rigorously monitored and
controlled, evidenced by other operating expenditure being 3.8% lower than in 2022/23 despite a period of
high inflation. Some of the measures, such as reductions in spending in IT and Estates, can only be viewed as
short-term measures, as long-term under-investment in these areas will increasingly have an adverse impact.
Staffing costs represent just under 60% of total expenditure. We have reduced our staffing levels during the
year, with the full-time equivalent staff numbers (FTE) reducing from 866 in 2022/23 to 811 in 2023/24
This reduction has been achieved predominantly although not exclusively through voluntary severance
schemes.

Cash reserves (comprising investments and cash and cash equivalents) remain very high by
historical benchmark at £33.9m. This is a reduction of £2.2m during the year, with cash being utilised to
support our operational activities. This level of cash is well above that required for our operational
requirements.

KPI HIGHLIGHTS

Surplus / Deficit (£m) 21

EBITDA (£m) (0.8)
EBITDA % of income (0.8%)
Net cash inflow from operating activities (£m) (2.8)
Staff cost % income (1.1%)

Net cash / (borrowing) (£m) (1.3)

The challenges we face are illustrated in our range of Key Performance Indicators (KPls). The KPIs cover a
number of operational areas such as student satisfaction and student employability. The financial KPls reflect
those used by the funding bodies and banks.

EBITDA refers to the Earnings Before Interest. Tax. Depreciation and Amortisation. Earnings are taken before
FRS 102 pension adjustments as is common within the sector. This KPI is a strong measure of the University's
ability to generate cash since it is less susceptible than total surplus / (deficit) to changes in non-cash

22

Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023-24

movements (such as depreciation). The EBITDA outturn of £4.4m represents 5.3% of income, compared to £5.2m
and 6.1% in 2022/23.

Whilst EBITDA can be used as a measure of cash generation, net cash inflow from operating activities provides
a clear marker of the cash the University is generating each year to service its investing and financing activities.
The net cash inflow from operating activities for 2023/24 is £0.9m (£3.7M 2022/23).

Staffing costs as a percentage of income is reported widely within the HE Sector. The headline figure has
decreased to 58% this year from 59% in 2022/23, due to the combination of the actuarial pension adjustments
and Voluntary Severance schemes offered to staff during the year.

The net cash to borrowing is derived from the total of cash and investments less the capital amount of bank
debt outstanding at the year-end. We have a net cash position (ie. cash exceeding borrowing) of £6.8m (£8.1m
in 2022/23).

Financial Environment

The financial environment in which we operate is challenging and is likely to remain so in 2024/25
and beyond.

In recent months there has been an increasing acknowledgement and reporting of the significant financial
pressure the higher education sector is currently experiencing. There is also a growing recognition that in order
to ensure that the Higher Education sector has a sustainable future, the current funding model needs to be
urgently addressed.

The home undergraduate tuition fee cap has now been frozen at £9,250 since 2017. It will now be increased by
3.1% in 2025/26, though uncertainty continues around further inflationary increases. For much of the time the
fee has been frozen, inflation has been manageable through internal cost management measures. However,
the ‘cost of living’ crisis of a period of high inflation peaking at over 10% in October 2022, has created an
imbalance between income and expenditure, which continues to be challenging.

Our income is also being affected by a reduced student cohort in 2023/24 in the key home full-time
undergraduate market. Competition has become even more fierce, as Universities focus on this market to
mitigate reduced income in other markets. However, a 6% year-on-year growth in 2024/25 signals the beginning
of a welcome recovery in our home full-time undergraduate population. Universities are also being affected by
the new Visa regulations introduced in January 2024 which places restrictions on family members of students
coming to the UK. Although this has a minimal impact on income in 2023/24. it will significantly reduce our
recruitment of international students, especially postgraduate, in 2024/25.

Difficult decisions have had to be made during the year to mitigate some of the factors above, and more difficult

decisions will be needed. However, we are confident that the measures we are taking should enable us to return
to sustainable growth.

23

Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023-24

Finance Enabling Strategy

The financial strategy is designed to empower the University of Winchester to fulfil its potential and
achieve our Strategic Plan 2028, and contains these five principles:

Long-term viability and matching resources with objectives
Maintaining productive capacity to meet current objectives
Financing development and investment

Evaluating strategic alternatives and managing risks
Integrating financial and other corporate strategies

MawWne

In light of the current financial environment, the Finance Strategy outlines the four strategic priorities for the
year ahead.

e Financial sustainability
© Toremain financially sustainable, generating sufficient cash to support the strategic objectives
and provide institutional sustainability.

e Operational efficiency
© Tocontinuously improve efficiency and effectiveness by managing the cost of operations and
delivering value for money whilst continuing to maintain a sustainable recurrent investment in
academic, corporate and support operations.

¢ Capital investment .
© To ensure the maintenance of the physical and digital estate alongside future strategic
investment to continually support the delivery of excellence in education. To also ensure capital
investment is at a level that will not put the University at financial risk.

e Treasury management

o To assess and manage risk in all of the University’s growth and development activities and to
operate sound treasury management as outlined in the Treasury Management Policy.

24

Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023-24

Financial Performance

Income
Total income for the year was £84.1m, a £1.5m reduction on 2022/23 (£85.6m).

Full-time home students represent our core market, accounting for 84% of our tuition fee income and 62% of
total income. Our first-year recruitment in this market was down in 2023/24, and this reduction, coupled with
reduced cohorts in previous years, has resulted in income reducing by £4.3m (7.7%) from £56.4m (2022/23) to
£52.1m. During the year we have embarked on a comprehensive review of our recruitment process to reverse
this trend and return to growth and, based on our actual recruitment in 2024/25 which is 6% higher year-on-
year, indicates that measures taken are having a positive impact with student recruitment numbers stabilising.

Partially offsetting the above, full-time international student fee income continued to grow in 2023/24,
increasing by £1.7m (33%) to £6.9m, due primarily to an increase in postgraduate students. The increase in
international students has proved to be financially beneficial; however, the new student visa rules introduced in
January 2024 has adversely impacted student numbers going forward, albeit from a small cohort of students.

Funding body grant income remained relatively unchanged at £4.9m from (2022/23 £4.8m), as did research
grants and contracts income at £347k (2022/23 £384k).

Within other income, conference income has performed well with income increasing by £0.2m to £1.1m and
now back to pre-Covid levels. Income from short-term investments increased to £1.9mM (2022/23 £0.9m), due
to the Bank of England Base Rate remaining at 5.25% during the year and therefore interest deposits
being correspondingly higher.

Expenditure

Total expenditure for the year was £85.4m, a 4.1% decrease on 2022/23.

Staff costs decreased by 3.7% from £50.5m to £48.6m, with the reduction due to actuarial pension adjustments
and staff headcount reductions. Each year, staff costs include an in-year actuarial adjustment in the Local
Government Pension Scheme (LGPS) that reflects the difference between the current service costs and
contributions made during the year. Typically, this results in a significant charge of around £2m to £3m. However,
due to the high Bank of England Base Rate, the return on pension assets has increased. The year-end actuarial
adjustment charge reduced to £0.5m in 2022/23 and in 2023/24 was a negative cost of £0.7m. Similarly, this
year the provision in the University Superannuation Scheme of £1.4m and at 31° July 2023 has been completely
released in 2023/24, reducing staff costs by this amount.

In addition. to mitigate the effects of declining student fee income. during the year there has been a reduction
in staff numbers from 866 to 811 FTE. Academic staff numbers have reduced from 358 to 333 FTE (7%), whilst
professional services staff numbers have decreased from 508 to 478 FTE (6%). Although there have been a small
number of compulsory redundancies, the reduction has predominantly been achieved by vacancy management
and voluntary severance schemes.

Other operating expenditure has decreased by 3.8% to £28.2m (2022/23 £29.4m). Included within the
expenditure is a one-off impairment of £1.046k relating to the former outpatients’ site on Romsey Road
purchased in 2018/19. During the year a current market value for the site was obtained, valuing the site at £4.3m.
compared to the £5.3m asset value in the Statement of Financial Position. requiring the asset value to be revised
to the current market valuation.

Energy costs have increased by 45% (2023/24 £3.0m, 2022/23 £2.1m), with the large increases in wholesale

energy prices following Russia's incursion into the Ukraine now feeding through. In 2022/23, forward purchasing
of energy had largely mitigated the full impact of these increases. The mix between gas and electricity usage

25

Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023-24

has also changed during the year, due to the installation of 34 Air Source Heat Pumps becoming fully
operational, the pumps funded as part of our successful Public Sector Decarbonisation Scheme bid.

Included within repairs and general maintenance is a £0.5m provision for RAAC (Reinforced Autoclaved Aerated
Concrete) remedial works following RAAC being identified in our Fred Wheeler and Herbert Jarman buildings.
These buildings are the only areas of the campus where RAAC is present.

In most other categories of other operating expenditure. expenditure has reduced due to cost reduction
measures being implemented. If the £1.0m one-off impairment to the hospital site is excluded from the figures,
other operating expenditure has reduced by 7.4% during a period of high inflation.

Depreciation in 2023/24 is £6.5m (2022/23 £6.7m) the reduction reflecting the lower level of capital investment
in the Estates infrastructure. The major refurbishment of the Martial Rose Library is included within ‘assets
within the course of construction’, with depreciation to commence once the works are completed in 2024/25.

The reduction in interest and other finance costs from £2.5m to £2.1m in 2022/23 is primarily due to the LGPS
actuarial pension adjustment, which reduced from a charge of £372k in 2022/23 to a credit of £18k in 2023/24.
The impact of the high 5.25% Bank of England Base Rate on interest payable continued to be mitigated by only
£10m of the £30m loan with Triodos Bank being on a variable rate, with the remainder on a fixed rate until 2028.

Statement of Financial Position

Fixed Assets

Capital additions during the year were £6.3m, of which £4.2m relates to the major refurbishment of the Martial
Rose Library, an £8.2m project with £5.8m being funded by the Office for Students. Works are ongoing at the
year-end with the project due to be completed in the spring of 2025.

During the year, work began on the initial phase of the replacement and upgrading of the windows in the West
Downs Student Village. The project was on-going at the year-end, with £1.2m being incurred during the year.

Current Assets

These decreased by £2.0m to £40.8m during the year, reflecting the reduction in cash reserves (represented by
Investments and Cash and cash equivalents).

Creditors

The creditors figure remained relatively unchanged at £75.9m (2022-23 £75.8m).

Within creditor amounts falling due within one-year, Other Payables has reduced by £1.3m (2023/24 £1.2m:
2022/23 £2.5m). This is primarily due to a reduction in tuition fee deposits received in advance from international
students, resulting from the change in visa regulations reducing the number of international students applying
to the University in 2024/25.

The increase in Deferred Capital Grants during the year is due to £4.4m received from the Office for Students
relating to their £5.8m contribution funding of the Martial Rose Library refurbishment. Once completed. this
creditor will be released to the Statement of Comprehensive Income in line with the depreciation charge relating
to the grant funding.

Provisions

The University has two main employee pension schemes. Hampshire Local Government Pension Scheme
(LGPS) and the Teachers’ Pension Scheme (TPS). The University also has an auto-enrolment scheme, our Higher
Education Defined Contribution Scheme (HEDCS), held with Aviva. In addition. there are a low number of

26

Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023-24

members (less than 50) in the University Superannuation Scheme (USS), the National Health Service Scheme
(NHSBSA) and the Church of England Funded Pension scheme (CEFPS).

The largest scheme is the TPS, which is a statutory, unfunded government defined-benefit scheme, and as such
the University is not required to provide for any pension deficits arising in the fund.

The LGPS is a funded defined-benefit scheme with assets held in separate funds administered by Hampshire
County Council. The pension scheme performed well during the year, closing with a net asset gain of £3.7m
(2022/23 £13.4m gain) and increasing the notional asset to £6.3m (2022/23 £2.6m).

The £1.4m USS provision was fully released to the Statement of Comprehensive Income in the year.

Within Other Provisions, £0.3m relates to the Voluntary Severance scheme offered in June and requests agreed
prior to the 31% July 2024. Also included is the £0.5m provision for RAAC remedial works in the Fred Wheeler
and Herbert Jarman buildings.

Cash Position

Cash and investments decreased from £36.1m to £33.9m at the 31% July 2024: however, cash reserves remain
high by historical comparisons and well above that needed for day-to-day operational requirements. All bank
covenants were met at the date of the Statement of Financial Position.

Future Outlook

“This strategic plan is all about transformation. Transforming how we teach and inspire our students.
Transforming how we operate and work together. Transforming how we work in partnership across the city
and region" (Strategic Plan 2023-2028).

In January 2023 we published our Strategic Plan for the next five years. It has been shaped by our original mission
~ to educate, advance knowledge and serve the common good - and was guided by our reimagined values,
and focuses on the importance of people. place and partnership in delivering our mission.

In order to deliver the Strategic Plan. a Finance Enabling Strategy has been developed with a focus on the
following steps:

Assess the current financial position
Define goals and objectives

Identify revenue growth opportunities
Control costs and optimise operations
Generate cash for investment
Manage risks

Student recruitment in our core home full-time undergraduate market has been declining until 2024/25. The
transformation in the University strategy is focused on addressing this by refreshing our student proposition to
attract more students. We are starting to see the positive impact of this focus, demonstrated by the 6% year-on-
year increase in home undergraduate students joining the University in September 2024. We are also starting to
see growth in our apprenticeship provision. This return to growth in our core market begins to create income
growth that will mitigate the fee cap and inflation. However, short-term budget measures continue to be
required to reduce the cost base in order to return to reporting surpluses and generating cash.

In recent years we have been successful in generating cash which is essential to free up covenant constraints
and enable future investment in teaching and the estates and IT infrastructure challenges.

We are two years into resizing the cost base and removing the sustainability gap to rebalance our finances,
along with addressing the student proposition to resume student growth. As part of this process. we continue
to monitor the economic factors that are impacting ourselves and wider sector and adjust our plans accordingly.
In the coming year we will continue to realign our cost base and grow student numbers.

27

Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023-24

The University has sufficient resources to remain financially sustainable for at least twelve months from the date
of signing these financial statements.

Although the next years are undoubtedly going to be challenging for the University and indeed the Higher

Education sector as a whole, we are confident that the University will continue to be financially healthy and
sustainable in the future.

28

Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023-24

Statement of the Board of Governors Responsibilities
in Respect of the Strategic Report, the Directors’
Report and the Financial Statements

The University’s Board of Governors, whose members, for the purposes of company law are also the
directors of the University, is responsible for ensuring that the strategic report, the directors’ report
and the financial statements are prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Office for
Students’ terms and conditions of funding for higher education institutions, Research England's
terms and conditions of Research England grants, and other applicable law and regulations.

Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year and the University's
directors have elected to prepare the University's financial statements in accordance with UK accounting
standards and applicable law, including FRS102, the Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK. The terms
and conditions of funding also require the financial statements to be prepared in accordance with the Statement
of Recommended Practice (SORP) Accounting for Further and Higher Education institutions.

Under company law, the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they
give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the University and of its income and expenditure, gains and
losses and changes in reserves for that period.

In preparing each of the University’s financial statements, the directors are required to:

e Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently.

e Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent.

e State whether applicable UK accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material
departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.

e Assess the University's ability to continue as a going concern.

e Use the going concern basis of accounting unless this is not appropriate.

Company law requires the directors to be responsible for maintaining adequate accounting records that are
sufficient to show and explain the University’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time
the financial position of the University. The directors are also responsible for such internal controls as they
determine are necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material
misstatement, whether that is due to fraud or to error. The directors also have a general responsibility for taking
such steps as are reasonably necessary to safeguard the assets of the University and to prevent and detect
fraud and other irregularities.

The Board of Governors is also responsible for ensuring that:

e Funds from whatever source that are for specific purposes are properly applied for the specific
purpose.

e Funds provided by the Office for Students, Research England, the Department for Education or any body
are applied in accordance with the terms and conditions attached to the funds.

e The University has appropriate financial and management controls in place to safeguard public funds,
and funds from other sources and securing the economical. efficient and effective management of the
University's resources.

The Board of Governors is responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial

information included on the University's website. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and
dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.

29

Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023-24

Directors’ Report

The individuals who served on the Board of Governors in the period from 1 August 2023 to the date

of approval of these financial statements is set out below:

Members of the Board of Governors

Mary Edwards (Chair)

Andrew Robinson (Vice-Chair)

Professor Sarah Greer, Vice-Chancellor (ex-officio)
avin Hunter, Chief Operating Officer (ex-officio)

he Right Revd. Debbie Sellin, Bishop of Southampton

he Right Revd. Philip Mounstephen. Bishop of
inchester
(Charlotte Baker (Student Union President & Student
Governor)
Magnus Bashaarat

Dr Lesley Black (Professional Services Staff Governor)
jonny Brason
itl Davies (Academic Staff Governor)
Alison Evans
rofessor Chris Gaskell
/eepa Korea
r Emma Page
rofessor Edward Rochead

Appointed on Resigned on

:

1 January 2024

Andrew Smith

Mark Thistlethwayte
ae Tooth
hura KT Win

Alexandra Wilson (Student Union President & Student
Governor)

1 July 2024

IClerk to the Governors

tephen Dowell

Delegation of Authority

23 February 2024

31 July 2024

The Board of Governors believes governance-of the University of Winchester is best achieved by delegation of
its authority for the executive management of the University of Winchester to the Vice-Chancellor (Accountable
Officer), subject to defined limits and monitoring by the Board. The Board of Governors routinely monitors the
delegation of authority. ensuring that it is regularly updated, while retaining ultimate responsibility. The Board of
Governors has adopted a long-standing corporate governance framework which is outlined in more detail in

our Statement of Corporate Governance and the Statement of Internal Control on page 34.

30

Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023-24

Corporate Governance

The following corporate governance statement provides information about the University’s governance,
management and legal structure during the year to 31 July 2024 and up to the date of signing these Financial
Statements.

Legal Status of the University

The University of Winchester (registered company number 05969256) is a company limited by guarantee and
is an exempt charity under the terms of the Charities Act 2011 with its Governors as managing trustees. It is
therefore exempt from certain requirements of charities legislation including the need to register with the
Charity Commission. Since 1 April 2018, the Office for Students (OfS) has been “principal regulator” for charity
law purposes of those English universities that are exempt charities.

Governance

In accordance with Section 124 of the Education Reform Act 1988, the principal objectives of the University are
related to the provision of Higher Education and the conduct of research. To support these principal objectives,
the University also undertakes other activities including knowledge exchange, consultancy, and the provision of
accommodation, catering and conference services.

In setting and reviewing the University's strategy and activities, the Board of Governors takes into consideration
the Charity Commission's guidance on the reporting of public benefit and the supplementary public benefit
guidance on the advancement of education. The University takes steps to ensure that it satisfies the Charity
Commission's public benefit requirements.

As an exempt charity, the University’s Board of Governors has had due regard to the guidance on public
benefit published by the Charity Commission in exercising their powers and performing their duties. The
Board of Governors has due regard to any detrimental harm that may arise from the University's activities and
particularly the impact of campus developments on its immediate locality. The University aims to minimise
this impact through extensive community discussion and consultation, in addition to working closely with
Winchester City Council

The Board of Governors recognises that students are the principal beneficiaries of the provision of higher
education whilst the public at large are beneficiaries of the University's Research & Innovation, and Knowledge
Exchange activities and community engagement events. The University does not receive private benefit from
its activities undertaken in pursuance of its purposes.

Responsibilities of the Board of Governors

The Board of Governors formally meets at least five times a year. as well as undertaking an annual strategy day.
It is responsible for the overall governance of the University and has a strategic role in forming the character
and mission of the institution. It determines the educational character and objectives for the institution and
ensures compliance with the Office for Students’ terms and conditions of funding, standards of institutional
quality, student experience and outcomes, financial sustainability and accountability. and for access and
participation. The Board of Governors is also responsible for ensuring the effective and efficient use of
resources, ensuring that assets and solvency are safeguarded and for approving annual estimates of income
and expenditure.

The Board of Governors comprises people appointed under the University’s Memorandum and Articles of
Association, which were adopted on 16 March 2011. A copy of these can be found on the policies and procedures
page of our website under: www.winchester.ac.uk/aboutus/leadership- and-governance/ policies-and-
procedures/

The Board of Governors comprises at least eighteen (but not more than twenty-five) members who are drawn
from the Winchester Diocese, the public, the private sector and from the University alumni. Members of the
Board of Governors will also be elected/appointed from the Academic and Professional Services Staff of the
University. The nominated governors are expected to be independent and not to act as representatives of those
who elect/ appoint them.

31

Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023-24

There are up to five ex-officio governors. These are the Lord Bishop of Winchester, the Vice-Chancellor, the
President of the Student Union, and up to two designated deputies to the Vice-Chancellor. The Lord Bishop of
Winchester is also a Diocesan Governor.

1

With the exception of ex-officio governors, governors hold office for a term of three years and are
eligible for reappointment for up to a maximum of three terms of three years each in total. The
Student Union Governor holds office until the end of the academic year for which the student
governor is appointed or until their appointment by the students comes to an end, whichever is
sooner.
The role of the Chair of the Board of Governors is separate from the University’s Vice-Chancellor.
The Chair is elected from amongst the non-executive members of the Board. No member of the
Board of Governors receives remuneration for work they do for the Board of Governors.
Under the Office for Students terms and conditions, the Board of Governors has determined that the
Vice-Chancellor shall be the Accountable Officer of the University, with the responsibilities set out
by the Office for Students, up to and including being summoned to appear before the Public
Accounts Committee of the House of Commons.
The Board of Governors is satisfied that all conditions of receiving and using funds provided by the
Office for Students, UK Research and Innovation (including Research England), Education and Skills
Funding Agency and the Department for Education have been applied in accordance with the
relevant terms and conditions for the year to 31 July 2024. The University’s constitution places
responsibility for its operations with the Vice-Chancellor, and they are supported in this by the
Executive Leadership Team.
The University endeavours to conduct its business in accordance with the seven principles identified
by the Committee on Standards in Public Life (selflessness, integrity. objectivity, accountability.
openness, honesty and leadership) and with guidance to institutions of higher education which has
been provided by the Committee of University Chairs (CUC).
In executing its duties, the Board of Governors maintains a comprehensive system of risk
management, control and corporate governance, including the prevention and detection of
corruption, fraud, bribery and irregularities. The Board of Governors receives adequate and regular
information to monitor performance and track the use of public funds to enable it to identify any
material change in its circumstances, including any significant developments that could impact the
mutual interests of the University and the Office for Students. For the purposes of this statement.
public funds include funds received from the Student Loans Company, UK Research and Innovation
{including Research England), Education and Skills Funding Agency and the Department for
Education.
The University obtains assurance over the adequacy and effectiveness of the arrangements for
corporate governance. risk management and oversight of statutory and other irregularities through
its external and internal audit assurance process.
Each year, aspects of its corporate governance arrangements are tested by the internal audit
function, and the experience of the Board is annually reviewed by its Nominations Committee. The
University's risk management and regulatory reporting are approved by the Board of Governors
through a formal committee structure.
The primary responsibilities of the Board of Governors include:

e determining the University's educational character and objectives and overseeing its
activities
the effective and efficient use of resources
ensuring the University's solvency and the safeguarding of its assets
approving annual estimates of income and expenditure
the assignment of duties and the appraisal of the Vice-Chancellor
determining the identity of the designated staff and their selection, appraisal,
remuneration and monitoring of their performance
e setting a framework for the pay and general conditions of employment of the staff who

are not designated staff

e after consultation with the staff, making the rules relating to the conduct of the staff
e the appointment of an auditor.

In accordance with its Memorandum and Articles of Association. the University has appointed a Clerk to the
Governors who provides independent advice on matters of governance to Board members.

Governors are required to complete a ‘Fit and Proper person’ record prior to their appointment. Upon
appointment, governors complete a ‘Declaration of Office’ and are also required to complete a ‘Register of

32

Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023-24

Interests’ annually and update in year where necessary. The Register of Interests is open for inspection by
arrangement with the Clerk for the Governors.

Details how the University has applied the principles set out in the Higher Education Code of Governance
(September 2020) issued by Committee of University Chairs (CUC)) and the UK Corporate Governance Code
issued by the Financial Reporting Council July 2018), in so far as they relate to Higher Education Institutions. Its
purpose is to help the reader of the Annual Report understand how the principles have been applied.

Further information as to how the board has had regard to the s172 factors is embedded in this report as noted
on page 36.

Auditor

Forvis Mazars LLP was appointed as auditors for 2023/24. Their Audit Strategy Memorandum for year-ending
31 July 2024 was endorsed by the University’s Risk and Audit Committee meeting on 18'" June 2024 and
approved by the Board on 3°¢ July 2024.

Disclosure of Information to the Auditor

The Governors who held office at the date of approval of this report confirm that. so far as they are each aware,
there is no relevant audit information of which the University of Winchester's auditor is unaware, and each

governor has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken to be aware of any relevant audit information
and to establish that the University of Winchester’s auditor is aware of that information.

33

Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023-24

Statement of Internal Control

The Board of Governors is responsible for maintaining a sound system of internal control, which
supports the achievement of policies, aims and objectives, whilst safeguarding the public and
other funds and assets for which it is responsible. This is in accordance with the responsibilities
assigned to the Board of Governors in the Office for Students terms and conditions of funding for
higher education institutions.

The Statement of Internal Control (SIC) relates to the period covered by the financial statements (1 August
2023 to 31 July 2024, and the period up to the date of approval of the audited financial statements).

The University complies with the Office for Students conditions of registration. This includes giving due regard
to relevant guidance about the compliance with relevant consumer protection law when developing and
implementing policies, procedures and terms and conditions. and adopting a Student Protection Plan.

In the period covered by this statement the Board of Governors can confirm that the University has complied
with both:

e the Terms and Conditions of Funding issued by the Office for Students; and

e the Higher Education Code of Governance issued by the Committee of University Chairs (CUC),

published in September 2020.

The system of internal controls is designed to manage the risk of the University failing to achieve its policies,
aims and objectives. It is recognised that it is not possible to eliminate entirely this risk. and so the system of
internal controls can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance about its effectiveness.

The system is based on an ongoing process designed to identify risks to the achievement of policies, aims
and objectives, to evaluate the nature and the extent of those risks and to manage them to achieve economy,
efficiency, and effectiveness in the use of the University's resources.

The Board of Governors has responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness of the system of internal controls
and has established the following procedures:

The Board of Governors meets at regular intervals throughout the year to consider the University’s plans
and strategic direction.

The Board of Governors has delegated some of the responsibility for providing oversight of risk
management to the Risk and Audit Committee.

The Risk and Audit Committee obtains regular reports from management on the steps they are taking
to manage risks in their areas of responsibility, including progress reports on key projects. The Risk and
Audit Committee also receives reports from management on internal control activities.

The Risk and Audit Committee receives regular reports from the University’s internal audit service
provider on the areas that have been subject to internal audit review and containing recommendations
for improvement. The internal audit reports prepared for the Risk and Audit Committee also include the
Internal Auditor Annual Report containing the internal auditor's opinion on the adequacy and
effectiveness of the University’s system of internal controls.

The Chair of the Risk and Audit Committee will periodically report to the Board of Governors on internal
controls.

A regular programme of review is undertaken to identify and keep up to date the record of risks facing
the University.

Risk management is embedded in all University operations through a system of key performance and
risk indicators. A University-wide risk register is maintained, with risks ranked according to how they may
prevent the University achieving its strategic priorities. Risk awareness is enabled at operational levels
within the University and as appropriate to specific risks.

The Board of Governor's review of the effectiveness of the system of internal controls is informed by the
University's internal audit service. This service confirms compliance with relevant professional standards
relating to the provision of internal audit services to a university. The University's internal audit provider

34

Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023-24

submits regular reports to the Risk and Audit Committee on the adequacy and effectiveness of the
University's system of risk management, internal controls and corporate governance.

The Board of Governor's review of the effectiveness of the system of internal controls is informed by the

University's management who are responsible for the operation of the internal control framework, the work
of the internal auditor. and by comments made by the external auditor in their reports to the University.

Going Concern

After making appropriate enquiries, the Board of Governors is satisfied that the University has adequate
resources to continue in operation for the for at least 12 months from the date of signing of these financial
statements: for this reason the going concern basis has been used in preparation of the financial statements.
Governors’ liability on dissolution

In accordance with the Memorandum and Articles of Association, if the University is dissolved while they

are a governor, or within one year afterwards. every Governor undertakes to pay up to one pound sterling
(£1.00) towards the costs of dissolution and the liabilities incurred by the University.

Signed on behalf of the Board of Governors

\Pirg Gonsaak

Mary Edwards
Chair of the Board of Governors

Professor Sarah Greer
Vice-Chancellor

Date 27.11.2024

35

Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023-24

Statement by the Directors in Performance of their
Statutory Duties in Accordance with $172(1)
Companies Act 2006

The Companies (Miscellaneous Reporting) Regulations 2018 (Reporting Regulations 2018) require
that large private institutions include additional corporate governance reporting disclosures in
their strategic report and directors’ report, effective for financial years beginning on or after 1
January 2019.

Large private institutions are now required to include in their strategic report a separate statement describing
how the directors have had regard to the matters set out in section 172(1)(a) to (f) of the Companies Act 2006
when performing their duty under section 172.

The Board of Governors of the University of Winchester consider, both individually and together, that they have
acted in the way they consider, in good faith. would be most likely to promote the success of the University of
Winchester for the benefit of its members as a whote (having regard to the stakeholders and matters set out in
$172(1a-f} of the Act) in the decisions taken during the year ended 31 July 2024.

36

Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023-24

Independent Auditor's Report to Board of Governors
of University of Winchester

Opinion

We have audited the financial statements of University of Winchester (the ‘University’) for the year ended 31 July
2024 which comprise the Statement of Comprehensive Income and expenditure, the Statement of Changes in
Reserves, the Statement of Financial Position, the Statement of Cash Flows and notes to the financial statements,
including a summary of significant accounting policies. The financial reporting framework that has been applied
in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 102 “The
Financial Reporting Standard Applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland” (United Kingdom Generally Accepted
Accounting Practice).

In our opinion, the financial statements:

e give a true and fair view of the state of the University's affairs as at 31 July 2024 and of the University's
income and expenditure, gains and losses, changes in reserves and cash flows for the year then ended:

e have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting
Practice:

e have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Statement of Recommended Practice
- Accounting for Further and Higher Education: and

e have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006

Basis for opinion

We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) (ISAs (UK)) and applicable
law. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the “Auditor's responsibilities for the audit
of the financial statements” section of our report. We are independent of the University in accordance with the
ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRC's
Ethical Standard, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our
opinion.

Conclusions relating to going concern

In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the Board of Governors use of the going concern
basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate. Based on the work we have
performed, we have not identified any material uncertainties relating to events or conditions that, individually or
collectively. may cast significant doubt on the University's ability to continue as a going concern for a period of
at least twelve months from when the financial statements are authorised for issue.

Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the Board of Governors with respect to going concern are
described in the relevant sections of this report.

Other information

The other information comprises the information included in the Annual Report, other than the financial
statements and our auditor's report thereon. The Board of Governors are responsible for the other information

37

Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023-24

contained within the annual report. Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information
and. except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report. we do not express any form of assurance
conclusion thereon.

Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is
materially inconsistent with the financial statements. or our knowledge obtained in the course of the audit, or
otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material
misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial
statements or a material misstatement of the other information. If, based on the work we have performed, we
conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.

We have nothing to report in this regard.
Responsibilities of Board of Governors

As explained more fully in the Statement of Board of Governors Responsibilities set out on page 2g, the Board of
Governors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a
true and fair view. and for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of
financial statements that are free from material misstatement. whether due to fraud or error.

In preparing the financial statements, the Board of Governors are responsible for assessing the University's ability
to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going
concern basis of accounting unless the Board of Governors either intend to liquidate all or part of the University
or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.

Auditor's responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free
from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor's report that includes our
opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in
accordance with ISAs (UK) will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise
from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be
expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.

The extent to which our procedures are capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud is detailed below.
Irregularities, including fraud, are instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations. We design procedures
in line with our responsibilities, outlined above, to detect material misstatements in respect of irregularities,
including fraud.

Based on our understanding of the University and its operations, we considered that noncompliance with the
following laws and regulations might have a material effect on the financial statements: OfS requirements, UK
tax legislation, pensions legislation, employment regulation and health and safety regulation, anti-bribery,
corruption and fraud and money laundering.

Tohelpusidentify instances of non-compliance with these laws and regulations, and in identifying and assessing
the risks of material misstatement in respect to non-compliance. our procedures included, but were not limited
to:

e inquiring of management and, where appropriate, those charged with governance, as to whether the
University is in compliance with laws and regulations, and discussing their policies and procedures
regarding compliance with laws and regulations:

e inspecting correspondence, if any, with relevant licensing or regulatory authorities:

38

Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023-24

* communicating identified laws and regulations to the engagement team and remaining alert to any
indications of non-compliance throughout our audit: and

e considering the risk of acts by the University which were contrary to applicable laws and regulations,
including fraud.

We also considered those laws and regulations that have a direct effect on the preparation of the financial
statements, such as pensions legislation. the OfS Accounts Direction and the Companies Act 2006.

In addition, we evaluated the Board of Governors’ and management's incentives and opportunities for fraudulent
manipulation of the financial statements, including the risk of management override of controls, and determined
that the principal risks related to posting manual journal entries to manipulate financial performance.
management bias through judgements and assumptions in significant accounting estimates. in particular in
relation to defined benefit pension obligations, income recognition (which we pinpointed to the cut-off assertion).
and significant one-off or unusual transactions.

Our audit procedures in relation to fraud included but were not limited to:
e¢ ~ making enquiries of the Board of Governors and management on whether they had knowledge of any
actual, suspected or alleged fraud;
¢ gaining an understanding of the internal controls established to mitigate risks related to fraud;
e discussing amongst the engagement team the risks of fraud; and
e addressing the risks of fraud through management override of controls by performing journal entry
testing. :

There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above and the primary responsibility for the
prevention and detection of irregularities including fraud rests with management. As with any audit, there
remained a risk of non-detection of irregularities, as these may involve collusion, forgery. intentional omissions.
misrepresentations or the override of internal controls.

A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial

Reporting Council's website at wwwfrc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities, This description forms part of our
auditor's report.

Other Required Reporting

Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006

In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit:
e the information given in the strategic report and the Board of Governors’ report for the financial period
for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements; and
e the strategic report and the Board of Governors’ report have been prepared in accordance with
applicable legal requirements.

Opinion on other matters prescribed in the OfS Audit Code of Practice issued under the Further and Higher
Education Act 1992

In our opinion, in all material respects:
e funds from whatever source administered by the provider for specific purposes have been properly
applied to those purposes and managed in accordance with relevant legislation:
e funds provided by OfS, UK Research and Innovation (including Research England), the Education and
Skills Funding Agency and the Department for Education have been applied in accordance with the
relevant terms and conditions: and

39

Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023-24

e the requirements of the OfS’s accounts direction have been met.

Matters on which we are required to report by exception

In light of the knowledge and understanding of the University and its environment obtained in the course of the
audit, we have not identified material misstatements in the strategic report or the Board of Governors’ report.

We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the Companies Act 2006
requires us to report to you if, in our opinion:
e adequate accounting records have not been kept. or returns adequate for our audit have not been
received from branches not visited by us: or
e the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or
* certain disclosures of Board of Governors’ remuneration specified by law are not made: or
° we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.

We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the OfS Audit Code of Practice
requires us to report to you if, in our opinion:

e the provider's grant and fee income, as disclosed in the notes to the financial statements, is materially
misstated: or

e the provider's expenditure on access and participation activities, as disclosed in the financial statements,
has been materially misstated.

Use of the audit report

This report is made solely to the University's members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the
Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Board of Governors
those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor's report and for no other purpose. To the fullest
extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the University and the
Board of Governors as a body for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.

Nicola Wakefield (Nov, 2024 22:51 GMT) 29th November 2024

Nicola Wakefield for and on behalf of Forvis Mazars LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor
6 Sutton Plaza, Sutton Court Road, Sutton SM1 4FS

40

UNIVERSITY os
i) WINCHESTER

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

UNIVERSITY OF WINCHESTER
Statement of Comprehensive Income

Year Ended 31 July 2024
2024 2023
Notes

£'000 £000
Income
Tuition fees and education contracts 1 61,794 64,902
Funding body grants 2 4,929 4.761
Research grants and contracts 3 347 384
Other income 4 15,110 14,631
Investment income 5 1,895 944
Total income before endowments 84,075 85,622
Endowments 5 2 1
Total income 84,077 85.623
Expenditure
Staff costs 6 48,639 50,502
Other operating expenses 7 28,235 29,359
Depreciation 9 6,453 6,677
Interest and other finance costs 8 2,082 2,517
Total expenditure 85,409 89,055
Deficit for the year (1,332) (3,432)
Other comprehensive income
Effect of LGPS pension scheme remeasurements (net of
derecognition of notional pension surplus) 21 (714) 11,597
Total comprehensive (deficit)/surplus for the year (2,046) 8,165

All items of income and expenditure relate to continuing activities.

The accompanying notes form part of these financial statements.

41

UNIVERSITY OF WINCHESTER
Statement of Changes in Reserves

Year Ended 31 July 2024
Income and Revaluation
Endowment Expenditure reserve Total
Reserve

£'000 £'000 £'000 £'000
Balance at 31 July 2023 43 91,388 77,704 169,135
Surplus/ (Deficit) for the year 2 (1,334) - (1,332)
Other comprehensive income - (714) - (714)
Transfer between revaluation and income
and expenditure reserve - 1,692 (1,692) -
Total comprehensive income for the year 2 (356) (1,692) (2,046)
Balance at 31 July 2024 45 91,032 76,012 167,089

The accompanying notes form part of these financial statements.

42

UNIVERSITY OF WINCHESTER

Acompany limited by guarantee and registered in England and Wales.
Registration number: 05969256

Statement of Financial Position at 31 July 2024

2024 2023
Notes £'000 £'000
Non-current assets
Tangible fixed assets 9 202,489 203,662
Investment property and other investments 10 686 613
203,175 204.275
Current assets
Stock 41 42
Trade and other receivables a1 6,894 6,692
Investments 12 16,716 15,208
Cash and cash equivalents 13 17,184 20.934
40,835 42,876
Less: Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 14 (10,146) (12,619)
Net current assets 30,689 30,257
Total assets less current liabilities 233,864 234,532
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 15 (65,791) (63.160)
Provisions 16 (984) (2,237)
Total net assets 167,089 169,135
Restricted reserves
Income and expenditure - endowment reserve 45 43
Unrestricted reserves
Income and Expenditure Reserve 91,032 91.388
Revaluation reserve 76,012 77.704
Total unrestricted reserves 167,044 169,092
Total reserves 167,089 169.135

The financial statements on pages 52 to 65 were approved by the Board of Governors on 27 November
2024 and signed on its behalf by:

M Edwards Professor S Greer
Chair of Board of Governors Vice-Chancellor

The notes on pages 52 to 65 form part of these financial statements.

43

UNIVERSITY OF WINCHESTER
Cash Flow Statement
For the year ended 31 July 2024

Notes

Cash flow from operating activities
Deficit for the year

Adjustment for non-cash items

Depreciation 9
Impairments 9
Fair value gain on Investment Property 10
Decrease/(Increase) in stock

Decrease/(Increase) in trade and other receivables

Decrease in creditors

(Decrease)/Increase in provisions

Cashflow from operating activities

Adjustment for investing or financing activities

Investment income

Interest payable 8
Endowment income 5
Gain on sale of fixed assets

Capital grant income

Net cash inflow from operating activities

Cash flows from investing activities

Proceeds from sale of fixed assets

Capital grant receipts

Investment (deposits)/withdrawals

Investment income

Payments made to acquire fixed assets

Net cash (outflow)/inflow from investing activities

Cash flows from financing activities
Interest paid

Interest element of finance lease payments
Repayments of amounts borrowed
Endowment income

Capital element of finance lease payments
Net cash outflow from financing activities

Increase/(Decrease) in cash and cash equivalents in the year 13
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 13

Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year

The accompanying notes form part of these financial statements.

31 July
2024
£000

(1,332)

6,453
1,046
(73)

85
(3,025)
(1,981)

1,173

(1,760)
2,082
(2)
(15)
(601)
877

15
4,483
(1,508)
1,473
(5,738)
(1,275)

(1,102)
(965)
(948)

2
(339)
(3,352)

(3,750)

20,934
17,184

31 July
2023
£000

(3,432)

6.677
100
(23)

9
(629)
(587)

519
2,634

(868)
2.517
(1)
(10)
(599)
3.673

10

142
4.824
790
(4,343)
1,423

(1,101)
(980)
(3.568)

(323)
(5.970)
(874)

21,808
20.934

44

Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023-24

Statement of Principal Accounting Policies

Basis Of Preparation

The University's financial statements have been prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Accounting
Standards including Financial Reporting Standard 102 (FRS 102) and the Statement of Recommended Practice:
Accounting for Further and Higher Education (HE SORP 2019). They have also been prepared in accordance
with the “carried forward" powers and duties of previous legislation (Further and Higher Education Act 1992
and the Higher Education Act 2004) and the powers contained within the Higher Education and Research Act
2017, the Accounts Direction issued by the Office for Students (OfS), the terms and conditions of funding for
higher education institutions issued by the OfS and the terms and conditions of Research England Grant.

The financial statements are prepared in sterling which is the functional currency of the University and
rounded to the nearest £'000.

The University is a public benefit entity and has applied the relevant public benefit requirement of the
applicable UK laws and accounting standards. The University is registered with the OfS.

The University's financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention (modified by
the revaluation of certain financial assets and liabilities at fair value).

The University’s activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and
position, are set out in the Public Benefit statement which forms part of the Board of Governors Annual Report.
The Board of Governors Financial Review also describes the University's financial position, its cash flows,
liquidity position and borrowing facilities.

Going Concern

The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis which the Board of Governors
consider to be appropriate for the following reasons.

The Board of Governors have prepared income and expenditure, statement of financial position. and cash flow
forecasts for the five years ending 31 July 202g. After reviewing these forecasts, the Board of Governors is of
the opinion that, taking account of likely impact of high inflation costs, student recruitment challenges,
changes in interest rates and a challenging recruitment market. the University will have sufficient funds to
meet their liabilities as they fall due over the period of 12 months from the date of approval of the financial
statements (the going concern assessment period).

The Board of Governors approved the revisions to the current year forecast and the basis for the outer year
forecasts to 2028/29 which form the basis for the OfS December 2024 submission, at the November 2024
meeting. A number of scenarios were modelled and considered by the Finance and Resources Committee
before making the recommendation to the Board of Governors.

The Board of Governors considered:

« The University's strategic vision to 2030
e The academic strategy
e Financial modelling of various scenarios

The University has no undrawn lending facilities, and the budgeted cash flow does not require any additional
facilities within the next 12 months. The approved forecasts do not breach any covenant thresholds on our
existing borrowing facilities.

Having reviewed the scenario modelling, the Board of Governors is confident that the University will have
sufficient funds to continue to meet their liabilities as they fall due for at least 12 months from the date of
approval of the financial statements. The Board of Governors have therefore prepared the financial statements
on a going concern basis.

45

Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023-24

Basis Of Consolidation

At 31 July 2024 the University held a controlling interest in Winchester Business School Limited, Winchester
Management School Limited and Inspirational Classrooms Limited. All three of these companies have been
dormant since incorporation.

The University’s financial statements do not include the income and expenditure of the University of
Winchester Student Union as the University does not exert significant control or influence over the policy
decisions of the Students’ Union.

Income Recognition

Income from the sale of goods or services is credited to the Statement of Comprehensive Income (SCI) when
the goods or services are supplied to the customer or where the terms of a contract have been satisfied.

Tuition fee income is stated gross of any expenditure which is not a discount and is credited to the SCI over
the period in which the student is studying.

Where the amount of the tuition fees is reduced by a discount for prompt payment. income receivable is
shown net of discount. Bursaries and scholarships are accounted for gross as expenditure and not deducted
from income. Income from education contracts is recognised when the University is entitled to the income
which is the period in which the students are studying, or where relevant, when performance conditions within
the contract have been met.

Investment income is credited to the SCI on a receivable basis.

Funds that the University receives and then disburses as a paying agent on behalf of a funding body are
excluded from the SCI where the University is exposed to minimal economic benefit related to the transaction.

Taxation Status

The University is an exempt charity within the meaning of Part 3 of the Charities Act 2011. It also is considered
to conform with the requirements of Schedule 6 of the Finance Act 2010 and meet the definition of a
charitable company for Corporation Tax purposes. Accordingly, the University is potentially exempt from
taxation in respect of income or capital gains received within categories covered by section 478-488 of the
Corporation Act 2010 (CTA 2010) or section 256 of the Taxation of Chargeable Gains Act. to the extent that
such income or gains are applied to exclusively charitable purposes.

The University receives no similar exemption in respect of Value Added Tax (VAT). Irrecoverable VAT on
inputs is included in the cost of such inputs. Any irrecoverable VAT allocated to tangible fixed assets is
included in their cost.

Grant Funding

Government revenue grants including research grants are recognised in income over the period in which the
University recognises the related cost for which the grant is intended to compensate. Where part of a
government grant is deferred, it is recognised as deferred income within creditors and allocated between
creditors due within one year and due after more than one year as appropriate.

Grants (including research grants) from non-government sources are recognised in income when the
University is entitled to the income and performance related conditions have been met. Income received in
advance of performance related conditions being met is recognised initially as deferred income within
creditors in the Statement of Financial Position and released to income as the conditions are met.

Donations And Endowments
Non-exchange transactions without performance related conditions are donations and endowments.

Donations and endowments that do have donor restrictions imposed are recognised in income when the
University is entitled to the funds.

46

Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023-24

Income is retained within the restricted reserve until such time it is utilised in line with any restrictions at which
point the income is released to general reserve by way of a reserve fund transfer.

Donations with no restrictions are recognised in income when the University is entitled to the funds.
Investment income and appreciation of endowments is recorded in income in the year in which it arises and
as either restricted or unrestricted income according to the terms or restrictions applied to the individual
endowment fund.

Capital Grants

Government capital grants are recognised in income over the expected useful life of the asset. Other capital
grants are recognised in income when the University is entitled to the funds subject to any performance
related conditions being met.

Accounting For Retirement Benefits

The principal pension schemes for the University's staff are the Local Government Pension Scheme (LGPS)
and the Teachers’ Pension Scheme (TPS). Both are defined benefit schemes. ,

Under defined benefit schemes the University's obligation is to provide the agreed benefits to current and
former employees and the actuarial risk (that benefits will cost more than expected) and investment risk
(that returns on assets set aside to fund the benefits will differ from expectations) are borne by the University.

The TPS is a multi-employer scheme where it is not possible to identify the assets of the scheme that are
attributable to the University. Accordingly. the TPS scheme is accounted for on a defined contribution
basis and contributions to the scheme are recognised as expenditure in the period in which they are payable.

The University is, however, able to identify its share of the assets and liabilities of the LGPS and accordingly
the University recognises its share of the scheme's assets and liabilities in its Statement of Financial
Position.

Employment Benefits

Short term employment benefits such as salaries and compensated absences are recognised as an expense
in the year in which the employees render service to the University. Any unused benefits are accrued and
measured as the additional amount the University expects to pay as a result of the unused entitlement.

Enhanced Pensions

The actual cost of any enhanced on-going pension to a former member of staff is paid by the University
annually. An estimate of the expected future cost of any enhancement to the on-going pension of a former
member of staff is charged in full to the University's Statement of Comprehensive income in the year that the
member of staff retires. In subsequent years a charge is made to provisions in the Statement of Financial
Position using a basis provided by the funding bodies.

Finance And Operating Leases

Leases in which the University assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the leased
asset are classified as finance leases. Leased assets acquired by way of finance lease and the corresponding
lease liabilities are initially recognised at an amount equal to the lower of their fair value and the present value
of the minimum lease payments at the inception of the lease.

Minimum lease payments are apportioned between the finance charge and the reduction of the outstanding

liability. The finance charge is allocated to each period during the lease term to produce a constant periodic
rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.

47

Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023-24

Costs in respect of operating leases are charged to the Statement of Comprehensive Income on a straight-line
basis over the lease term.

Tangible Fixed Assets

Land and buildings
Land and buildings are capitalised at cost on initial recognition.

After initial recognition land and buildings are subsequently measured at cost/deemed cost less accumulated
depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.

Certain items of land and buildings that were owned by the University at the FRS 102 transition date of 1
August 2014 were valued at 1 August 2014 with the valuations being undertaken by Alder King. The basis of the
valuation for specialised buildings was depreciated replacement cost and for non-specialised assets, market
value was used where this was reasonable to obtain.

In valuing the land and buildings at 1 August 2014 the University followed the FRS 102 transitional
arrangements and does not intend to carry out regular revaluations of these assets in future. For the revatued
assets held by the University at 1 August 2014, depreciation and impairment losses have been calculated using
the revalued amount at 1 August 2014.

Costs incurred in relation to land and buildings after initial purchase or construction are capitalised to the
extent that they increase the expected future benefits to the University.

Freehold land is not depreciated as it is considered to have an indefinite useful life.

Buildings, plant and machinery are depreciated on a straight-line basis over the expected useful economic life
(UEL) of the asset as follows:

¢ Buildings, between 10 and 60 years
e Plant and machinery between 5 and 25 years

Where an item of land and buildings comprises two or more major components with substantially different
UELs, each component is accounted for separately and depreciated over its individual UEL. Expenditure
relating to subsequent replacement of components is capitalised as incurred.

Only items of capital expenditure with a value of £5.000 or more are recognised as tangible fixed assets.

No depreciation is charged on assets in the course of construction.

Depreciation methods, useful economic lives and residual values are reviewed at least annually and at the
date of preparation of each Statement of Financial Position.

Vehicles and Equipment

Equipment, including computers and software costing less than £5.000 per individual item are recognised as
expenditure. All other equipment is capitalised.

Capitalised equipment is stated at cost and depreciated over its expected useful life as follows:
« IT equipment 3 years
e Motor vehicles 5 years
« Fixtures and fittings | 10 years
Where an item of equipment comprises two or more major components having a significantly different VEL,

each component is accounted for separately and depreciated over its individual UEL. Expenditure relating to
subsequent replacement of components is capitalised as incurred.

48

Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023-24

Depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at the date of preparation of each
Statement of Financial Position.

Impairment

A review for potential indicators of impairment of all assets is carried out at each reporting date. If events
change or circumstances indicate that the carrying arnount of any asset may not be recoverable. a calculation
of the impact is completed and arising impairment values charged against the asset and to the SCI.

Borrowing Costs

Borrowing costs are recognised as expenditure in the period in which they are incurred.

Intangible Assets

Intangible assets are recognised in the Statement of Financial Position (SOFP) at cost and amortised over
a period of between 3 and 10 years representing the estimated useful economic life of the asset.

Investment Properties

Investment property consists of land and buildings held by the University primarily for the purpose
of generating rental income or for capital appreciation (or both) rather than for use in delivering
services. Investment properties are valued at 31 July each year at market value and changes in the
valuation recognised in the SCI.

Investments

Non-current asset investments are held in the SOFP at fair value unless it is not possible to determine
an accurate value in which case, they are held at amortised cost less any impairment. Current asset
investments are included in the SOFP at fair value.

Stocks
Stocks are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.

Cash And Cash Equivalents

Cash includes cash in hand and deposits with financial institutions repayable on demand. Deposits are
deemed to be repayable on demand if they are available within 24 hours without penalty.
Cash equivalents are short term deposits with a maturity term of less than 3 months from the date of
placement and with insignificant risk of change in value.

Provisions, Contingent Liabilities And Contingent Assets

Provisions are recognised in the financial statements when all of the following apply:

a) The University has a present obligation (either legal or constructive) as a result of a past event
b) Itis probable that there will need to be an outflow of economic benefits to settle the obligation
c) Areliable estimate can be made to value the obligation

A contingent liability arises from a past event that gives the University a probable obligation whose existence
can only be confirmed by the occurrence or otherwise of uncertain future events not wholly within the control
of the University. Contingent liabilities also arise in circumstances where a provision would otherwise be
made but it is either not probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required, or the amount of the
obligation cannot be measured reliably.

Where material, the amount recognised as a provision is discounted using a discount rate that reflects the
risks specific to the liability.

49

Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023-24

A contingent asset arises where an event has taken place that gives the University a possible asset whose
existence will only be confirmed by the occurrence or otherwise of uncertain future events not wholly within
the control of the University.

Contingent assets and liabilities are not recognised in the Statement of Financial Position but are disclosed in
the notes to financial statements.

Financial Instruments

The University has elected to adopt Sections 11 and 12 of FRS 102 in respect of the recognition and
measurement, and disclosure of financial instruments.

Financial assets and liabilities are recognised when the University becomes party to the contractual provision
of the instrument, and they are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered
into.

A financial asset and a financial liability are offset only when there is a legally enforceable right to set off the
recognised amounts and an intention either to settle on a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle the
liability simultaneously.

Financial Assets

Basic financial assets include trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, and investments in
commercial paper (i.e. deposits and bonds). These assets are initially recognised at transaction price unless the
arrangement constitutes a financing transaction, where the transaction is measured at the present value of the
future receipts discounted at a market rate of interest.

Financial assets are assessed for indicators of impairment at each reporting date. If there is objective evidence
of impairment, an impairment loss is recognised in the SCI.

Financial assets are de-recognised when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire or are
settled or substantially all of the risks and rewards of the ownership of the asset are transferred to another

party.
Financial Liabilities

Basic financial liabilities include trade and other payables and bank loans. These liabilities are initially
recognised at transaction price unless the arrangement constitutes a financing transaction, where the debt
instrument is measured at the present value of the future payments discounted at a market rate of interest.
Debt instruments are subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.

Fees paid on the establishment of loan facilities are recognised as transaction costs of the loan to the extent
that it is probable that some or all of the facility will be drawn down.

Trade payables are obligations to pay for goods and services that have been acquired in the ordinary course
of business from suppliers. Accounts payable are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one
year or less. If not, they are presented as non-current liabilities. Trade payables are recognised initially at
transaction price and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Financial liabilities are de-recognised when the liability is discharged. cancelled. or expires.

Reserves

Reserves are classified as restricted or unrestricted. Restricted endowment reserves include balances which
through endowment to the University, are held as a permanently restricted fund which the University must
hold in perpetuity.

Other restricted reserves include balances where the donor has designated a specific purpose for the
donation and therefore the University is restricted in the way it can use these funds.

50

Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023-24

Key Estimates And Judgements

The preparation of the University's financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates
and assumptions that affect the application of accounting policies and the reported value of assets and
liabilities, income and expenses. These judgements, estimates and associated assumptions are based upon
historical experience and other factors. including expectations of future events that are believed to be
reasonable under the circumstances.

In preparing these financial statements the following key judgements have been made:

¢ Tangible Fixed assets
o Assets have been reviewed to assess whether there are indicators of impairment at 31 July
2024. It was concluded that there are no matters to indicate an impairment on any asset where
an impairment has not already been accounted for in these financial statements.
e Local Government Pension Scheme
o The present value of the Local Government Pension Scheme defined benefit liabilities depend
upon several factors that are determined on an actuarial basis using a variety of different
assumptions. Any changes in the assumptions used (and which have been disclosed in note 21)
would impact upon the net pension asset/(liability).

51

ecee| UNIVERSITY or
tes) WINCHESTER

NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Notes to the Financial Statements

for the year ended 31 July 2024
Note 1 Tuition fees and education contracts 2024 2023
£000 £000
Full-time home students 52,067 56.399
Full-time international students 6,851 5.153
Part-time students 2,824 1947
Self-financing courses 1,052 1.403
6 64,902
Note 2 Funding body grants 2024 2023
£000 £000
Recurrent grant from OFS 2,102 2,086
Recurrent research grant 2495 1598
Specific grants 731 478
Deferred capital grants released in year 6o1 599
4,929 4761
Note 3 Research grants and contracts 2024 2023
£'000 £000
Grants 347 384
Note 3a The sources of grant and fee income are as follows: 2024 2023
£'000 £000
Grant income from the OfS 3,208 3.011
Grant income from other bodies 2,068 2.134
Fee income for taught awards (exclusive of VAT) 60,735 63.233
Fee income for research awards (exclusive of VAT) 476 644
Fee income from non-qualifying courses (exclusive of VAT) 583 1,025
67,070 70.047
Note 4 Other income 2024 2023
£'000 £000
Residences, catering and conferences 12,422 11,773
Other services rendered 202 196
Other income 2.486 2.662
15,420 14.631
Note 5 Endowment and Investment Income 2024 2023
£'000 £000
Income from short term investments 1,760 868
Fair value gain on Investment Property 73 23
Income from Investment Property 62 53
Investment income 1,695 944
Income from endowments 2 1
1,897 945
Note 6 Staff costs 2024 2023
£'000 £000
Salaries 38,865 38.877
Social security costs 3.843 3.931
‘Other pension costs 7A73 7.868
Apprenticeship levy 176 2;
50,057 §0,851
Less release of USS pension provision (1,418) ag)

48,639 50.502

52

Note 6

Notes to the Financial Statements
Staff costs (continued)

The highest paid employee of the University is the Vice-Chancellor and in 2023/24. the role was performed by Professor Sarah Greer.

2024 2023
Emoluments of Vice-Chancellor £
Professor Greer
Basic salary 220,000 220,000
Pension contributions 55.763 52.096
Total emotuments 275.763 272.096

The Vice-Chanceltor's basic pay and total remuneration expressed as a multiple of the median of all other employees of the University are:

2024 2023
No. No.

Multiples for Vice-Chancellor
Basic salary 53 57
Total remuneration 53 57

The median salary and remuneration calculations for the year ended 31 July 2024 were calculated in accordance with the methodology
prescribed by the OFS in Accounts Direction 2019.41, where the median pay is catculated on a full-time equivalent basis for the salaries paid by
the University to all its employees. The methodology is based on all staff employed at any point during the financial year. including all part-time
staff and agency workers. which have been converted to a full-time equivalent cost

The University has incorporated the OfS threshold as a reasonable basis for excluding lower paid part-time staff on variable hours, casual or
temporary contracts from the pay multiple calculations. The threshold reflects employees that are not required to be included in real-time
reporting to HMRC who should be excluded from the calculation, as requested by the OFS.

In accordance with the OFS Accounts Direction 2019.41 paragraph 12(c), the University is required to provide an explanation of the process
adopted for judging the performance and total remuneration package for the head of the institution. the Vice-Chancellor. The remuneration of
the Vice-Chancellor is based on robust evidence, comprising a combination of:

+ Performance against personal objectives
> The performance of the University against its KPIs and targets
+ Relevant benchmarking comparators

In relation to benchmarking. particular attention is given to comparator data for the heads of providers of similar sized higher education sector
institutions. Account is also taken of the outcome of higher education sector pay negotiations for staff on the national pay spine.

The University’s Remuneration Committee is responsible for determining pay and reward for designated senior staff, including the Vice-
Chancellor. During 2023/24 the Committee met once, in July 2024. During this meeting, the Committee made the difficult decision to not make an
annual pay award (consolidated or non-consolidated) to the Vice-Chancellor. The Committee confirmed that the sole reason for not making an
annual pay award for the Vice-Chancellor was the University (and wider sector's) financial context, and that in a “normal” year, the strong
performance of the Vice-Chancellor. coupled with the wider benchmarking data reviewed, would have supported a pay award being made.

53

Note 6

Notes to the Financial Statements
Staff costs (continued)

Higher paid staff

The number of employees (inclusive of the Vice-Chancellor) with a basic salary that exceeded £100,000 in the year, excluding pension
contributions, was:

2024 2023
Number Number
£100,000 to £104.999 a -
£105,000 to £109,999 - -
£110.000 to £114,999 2 -
£116,000 to £119.999 - 1
£120.000 to £124,999 a -
£125,000 to £129,999 - -
£130.000 to £134,999 . 1
£135,000 to £139.999 a -
£140,000 to £144.999 -
£145,000 to £149,999 . 1
£1§0.000 to £154.999 - -
£155,000 to £159.999 - -
£160,000 to £164,999 . -
£165,000 to £169,999 - :
£170,000 to £174,999 - -
£175.000 to £179.999 - -
£180.000 to £184,999 - >
£185,000 to £189,999 - -
£190,000 to £194.999 - -
£195,000 to £199.999 - 1
£200,000 to £204.999 - -
£205,000 to £209,999 - -
£210.000 to £214,999 - -
£215,000 to £219.999 - -
£220,000 to £224,999 2 1
6
Average staff numbers by major category :
By Headcount Headcount Headcount
Academic 397 430
Administration 540 580.
937 1,010
By full time equivatent staff (FTE) FTE FTE
Academic : 333 358
Administration 478 508
811 866

Severance costs

tn 2023/24, the University recognised severance costs of £g02K for 79 employees (2022/23: £238K for seventeen employees). These costs are
included the analysis of staff costs set out above.

Amounts for compensation for toss of office and redundancy for all staff are approved by the University’s Executive Leadership Team (ELT) in
accordance with delegated authority.

Key Management Personnel .

The University has created an Executive Leadership Team (ELT) comprising the Vice-Chancellor, the Chief Operating Officer. three Pro Vice-
Chancellors and the directors of Finance, Estates and Human Resources. The ELT is responsible for planning, directing and controlling the
University and therefore meets the definition of Key Management Personnel for the purposes of the University’s external reporting. Accordingly
the aggregate remuneration paid to members of ELT is disclosed below.

2024 2023

The number of key management personnel 8 9
£000 £000

Key management personnel compensation 1226 1.420

There was no compensation for loss of office payable to any key management personnel in the year (2023: nil.

54

Note 7

Note 7 (b)

Note 8

Notes to the Financial Statements

Analysis of total expenditure by activity 2024 2023

£'000 £000
Residences, catering and conferences. 3.887 4.038
School Placement fees 1,240 1.427
Consultancy Fees 820 956
Consumables 728 1,318
Books and periodicals 1,745, 1857
Fellowships, bursaries, scholarships and prizes 642 98s
Heat light. water and power 2,998 2,063
Repairs and general maintenance 4,030 4.640
Impairment of tangible fixed assets 2,046 -
Grants to Winchester Students Union 462 402

Rentals.
Other expenses

2024 2023
£000 £000
Surplus before taxation is stated after charging:
Auditor's remuneration (excluding VAT):
External auditor's remuneration in respect of audit services 62 79
External auditor's remuneration in respect of non-audit services 11 9g
Internal Audit 26 43
2024 2023
Access and participation £000 £000
Access investment 647 646
Financial Support 446 706
Disability Support 703 702
Research and evaluation 395 379
ExT 2.4

Of the costs related to Access and Participation. £874 are included in the staff costs disclosed in note 6 (2023: £898k).

The University's 2023/24 Access and Participation Plan estimated expenditure of approximately £18 million (exclusive of Disability Support). IF
adjusted for the cost of Disability Support, the total expenditure incurred by the University in 2023/24 in connection with access and participation
activities was approximately £15 million. The main area of underspend related to the cost of providing financial support to students as fewer
students applied for support than estimated in the Access and Participation Plan approved by the OfS. The costs reported comprise direct
financial support to students plus direct staff costs and direct expenses incurred in respect of the University’s access and participation activities
and no allocation or apportionment of overheads has been made.

The University’s Access and Participation Plan for the period to 31 July 2028 is available using the link below:

Interest and other finance costs 2024 2023
£000 £000
Interest on bank loans 2,102 1,101
Interest on finance leases 965 980
Net interest on defined benefit scheme — 25 435
2,082 2.51)
Taxation

The University is an exempt charity and as such is not subject to corporation tax on its charitable activities. The University has reviewed its non-
charitable trading activities and has determined that there is no corporation tax liability for the year ending 31 July 2024.

55

Note 9

Note 10

Note 11

Notes to the Financial Statements

Tangible Fixed Assets
Leasehoid Equipment Assets in the
Freehold Fandand ‘Landand MO! Fumitureand Course of Total
‘55 Buildings Fittings Construction
£000 £'000 £000 £'000 £000 £'000
Cost and valuation
At 1 August 2023 218,446 29,368 689 8,387 661 257.551
Additions 1,810 - 47 264 4.205, 6.326
Transfers - - - - - -
Impairment (2.046) - - 7 - (1.046)
Disposats - - (26) - = 426)
At 32 July 2024 219,210 29,368 40 8.653 866 262,80)
Depreciation
At 1 August 2023 37.056 9.727 503 6.603 - 53.889
Charge for the year 5.311 524 78 540 - 6.453,
Disposals - - (26) : = (26)
At 31 July 2024 42.367 10,251 555 7.143 - 60.316
Net book value
At 31 July 2024 176,843 19,137 155 1,508 866 202.4!
At31 July 2023, 181,390 19.641 186 1,784 661 203,662

The University's freehotd land and buildings were revalued as at 31st July 2014 by Alder King LLP. The valuations were prepared in accordance
with the RICS Valuation - Professional Standard December 2014 (Red Book), FRS102 and the HE SORP. The University took the transitional
provision under FRS102 section 35 to elect to use fair value as deemed cost The valuation of each part of University of Winchester was on the
following bases of value and assumptions:

- Owner-occupied property - to Fair Value (FV) assuming that the property would be sold as part of the
continuing business .

- Specialised property - to FV using the depreciated replacement cost (ORC) approach and
assuming that the property would be sold as part of the continuing business

Investment Property and Other Investments. 2024 2023
Investment Property £000 £000
Opening balance 613 590
Fair value gain on Investment Property —_ 73 33
Closing balance 686 613

The investment property fair value gain is for a single property and is based on a valuation by Alder King LLP. Pembroke House. 15 Pembroke
Road, Bristol, BS8 3BA. The investment property was valued on 31 July 2024. The valuation report was prepared in accordance with the RICS
Valuation - Global Standards 2022 - incorporating the International Valuation Standards and the UK national supplement effective from 1 May
2024, FRS 102 and the SORP (for Further and Higher Education).

2024 2023
Other Investments £000 £000
Opening balance - 100
Less impairments . - (200)
Closing balance = =
Total Investment Property and Other Investments 686 613
Trade and other receivables 2024 2023
£000 £000
Amounts falling due within one year:
Debtors 1,608 1892
Prepayments and accrued income 5.286, 5.100
6.894 6.692
Trade and other receivables include a non-current prepayment of £15 million (2023: £1.6 milttion).
Current Investments 2024 2023
£'000 £000
Nationwide 95 Day Saver 208 200
Lloyds Fixed Rate Bonds 11,500 -
Barclays Fixed Deposit 5,000 -
Nat West Fixed Rate Bond - 15,000
Lloyds 175 Day Account 8 8
16,726 15,208
Cash and cash equivalents 2024 2023
, £'000 £000
Cash and cash equivatents 17.184 20.934

17,184 20.934

56

Note 14

Note 15,

15 b)

Note 16

Notes to the Financial Statements

Creditors : amounts failing due within one year

2024 2023

£'000 £000
Mortgages and unsecured loans. 987 959
Obligations under finance lease 352 338
Trade payables 615 381
Other Payables 21194 2.527
Social security and other taxation payable 1,029 1.082
Accruals 3435 4219
Deferred income 2,037 2,518

Deferred income - Government capital grants S17 595
20,146, 12.619

Mortgages and unsecured loans
During the financial year the University had the following borrowing arrangements in place:
A loan from Triodos Bank raised specifically for the purpose of funding the University's West Downs development and amortising as follows:

a) £10 million amortising from May 2018 to July 2043 at 3.09%, fixed until June 2028.
b) £10 million amortising from January 2021 to July 2043 at 2.025%, fixed until January 2028.
¢) £10 million on a variable rate of interest, amortising to July 2043.

Creditors : amounts falling due after more than one year

2024 2023
£000 £000
Mortgages and unsecured loans 26,115 27.091
Obligations under finance lease 22,431 22,784
Deferred Capital Grants 17.245 13,285,
8579163360
Maturity of debt
2024 2023
Mortgages and unsecured loans are repayable as follows: £000 £000
Due between one and two years. 1,024 994
Due between two and five years 3.306 3.205,
Due in five years or more 21,785 22,892
Due after more than one year 26,115 27.091
Finance leases
The finance lease obligations that the University is committed to are as follows:
2024 2023
£000 £000
Between one and two years 367 352
Between two and five years 1,198 1149
In five years or more 20,866 21.283

22.432 22,784

Provisions
uss Enhanced
Scheme Pensions Other Total
£000 £'000 £000 £'000
At 31 July 2023 1432 244 561 2,237
Statement of Comprehensive Income (1,432) (39) 218 (2,253)
At 31 July 2024 = 205 779 984
Enhanced Pension Provision

The enhanced pension provision relates to an arrangement that was agreed with staff that have previously left the University’s employment and
the University cannot reasonably withdraw from this agreement. The provision has been recalculated in accordance with guidance issued by the
funding bodies.
The principal assumptions for this calculation are:

2024 2023
Price inflation- 7.03% 7.03%

Other Provisions

Other provisions relate to the estimated costs of undertaking safety works on University buildings that were constructed using Reinforced
Autoclaved Aerated Concrete (RAAC) together with the estimated redundancy costs relating to certain staff made redundant after 31 July 2024
but where the decision was made prior to 31 July 2024.

57

Note 17

Note 18

Note 19

Note 20

Note 21

Notes to the Financial Statements

2024 2023
Operating lease obligations £000 £000
Payable during the year 2.973 3.194
Future minimum lease payments due:
Payable within 1 year 2,287 2.749
Later than 1 year and not tater than 5 years 9.159 8.845
Later than 5 years 21,931 23.715
Total lease payments due 33.372. _35.309
Rentals receivable under operating leases. a4 122
Future minimum lease payments due:
Receivable within 1 year 370 280
Later than 1 year and not later than 5 years 1439 1148
Later than 5 years 2,967 3.106
Total lease payments receivable 4.776 4.534
Capital commitments

2024 2023

. £000 Fooo

Commitments contracted for 874 888.
Contingent liabilities

There are no contingent liabilities to be reported. (2023:ni.

Events after the reporting period
There are no events that have occurred since 31 July 2024 that are required to be reported in these financial statements.

Defined Benefit Obligations

The University’s employees belong to two principal post-employment benefit plans: the Teachers’ Pension Scheme England and Wales (TPS) for
academic and related staff; and the Hampshire County Council Pension Fund which is part of the Local Government Pension Scheme {LGPS) for
non-teaching staff. Both are multi-employer defined-benefit plans.

Teachers’ Pension Scheme

The Teachers’ Pension Scheme (TPS) is a statutory. unfunded. defined benefit occupational scheme, governed by the Teachers Pensions
Regulations 2010 (as amended), and the Teachers’ Pension Scheme Regulations 2014 (as amended). These regulations apply to teachers in
schools and other educational establishments, including academies, in England and Wales that are maintained by local authorities. tn addition,
teachers in many independent and voluntary-aided schools and teachers and lecturers in some establishments of further and higher education
may be eligible for membership. Membership is automatic for full-time teachers and lecturers and. from 1 January 2007, automatic too for
teachers and lecturers in part-time employment following appointment or a change of contract. Teachers and lecturers are able to opt out of the
TPS.

The Teachers’ Pension Budgeting and Valuation Account

Although members may be employed by various bodies, their retirement and other pension benefits are set out in regulations made under the
Superannuation Act (1972) and Public Service Pensions Act (2013) and are paid by public funds provided by Parliament The TPS is an unfunded
scheme and members contribute on a ‘pay as you go’ basis - contributions from members, along with those made by employers, are credited to
the Exchequer under arrangements governed by the above Acts.

The Teachers Pensions Regulations 2010 require an annual account - the Teachers’ Pension Budgeting and Valuation Account - to be kept of
receipts and expenditure (including the cost of pension increases). From 1 April 2001, the Account has been credited with a real rate of return,
which is equivalent to assuming that the balance in the Account is invested in notional investments that produce that real rate of return.

Valuation of the Teachers’ Pension Scheme
Asa result of the latest scheme valuation, employer contributions were increased in April 2024 from a rate of 23.6% to 28.6%. Employers also pay
a charge equivatent to 0.08% of pensionable salary to cover administration costs.

The valuation of the TPS is carried out in accordance with regulations made under the Public Service Pensions Act (2013). Valuations credit the
TPS with a real rate of return assuming funds are invested in notional investments that produce a real rate of return,

A copy of the latest valuation report can be found by following this link to the TPS website:
hitos:/Zwww teacherspensions.co.uk/news/employers/2023/10/vatuation-resultasox

The next vatuation is expected to take effect in 2027.

The TPS pension costs to the University in the year amounted to £4.4 million (2023: £4.1 million).
Scheme Changes

In line with the requirements of the Public Service Pensions and Judicial Offices Act 2022. the Department for Education laid regulations which
came into force on 1 April 2022, closing the legacy scheme to any further accrual which prevented any further discrimination.

The regulatory changes, atong with the ongoing Transitional Protection remedy. are being implemented in response to the McCloud-Sargeant
discrimination ruling. The retrospective remedy offers members in scope a deferred choice of benefits, legacy or reformed, in respect of
pensionable service during the remedy period (1 April 2015 to 31 March 2022).

FRS 102 (28)

Under the definitions set out in FRS 102 (28.11). the TPS is a multi-employer pension plan. The University is unable to identify its share of the
underlying assets and liabilities of the plan.

Accordingly, the University has taken advantage of the exemption in FRS 102 and has accounted for its contributions to the scheme as if it were a
defined-contribution plan. The University has set out above the information available on the plan and the implications for the University in terms
of the anticipated contribution rates.

58

Note 21

Notes to the Financial Statements
Defined Benefit Obligations (continued)

Local Government Pension Scheme (LGPS)

The LGPS is a funded defined-benefit plan. with the assets held in a separate fund administered by Hampshire County Council. The total
contributions made for the year ended 31 July 2024 amounted to £3.9 million of which employer's contributions totalled £3.1 million and
employees’ contributions totalled £0.8 million. The agreed contribution rates for Future years are 23.9% for employers and range from 5.5% to
12.5% for employees, depending on salary.

Employee benefits earned up to 31 March 2024 have been linked to final salary and benefits earned after 31 March 2014 being based on a Career
Average Revalued Earnings basis.

The funded nature of the LGPS requires participating employers and their employees to pay contributions into a fund. calculated at a level
intended to balance the pension liabilities with investment assets. The most recent actuarial valuation was at 31 March 2022.

The assets allocated to each employer member of the fund are notional and are assumed to be invested in line with the investments of the fund
for the purposes of calculating the return over the accounting period. The assets are invested in a diversified spread of investments and the
approximate split of assets for the the fund as a whole is shown in this disclosure note.

An allowance has been made for the full increases on GMP equalisation for individuals reaching state pension age from § April 2016. The
additional liability includes an allowance for equalisation between sexes.

An allowance has also been made for the retrospective impact of the McCloud judgement in Past Service Costs with the current service cost

* including an allowance for potential McCloud related liabilities.

The following information is based upon a full actuarial valuation of the fund at 31 March 2022.

Financial Assumptions
31 July 3i duly gi July

31 July 2024 2023 2022 2021 31 July 2020
(% pa) (% pa) {% pa) (% pad (% pa)
Discount Rate 5.0 51 34 17 14
CPI inflation 28 3.0 25 26 22
Rate of increase to pensions in payment 28 3.0 25 26 22
Pension accounts revaluation rate 28 3.0 25 26 22
Rate of general increase in salaries 38 4.0 35 36 32

Mortality

Life expectancy is based on the S3 tables with improvements in tine with the CMI 2023 model, with a 15% weighting of 2023 (and 2022) data. a 0%
weighting of 2021 (and 2020) data, standard smoothing (Sk7). initial adjustment of 0.25% and a long term rate of improvement of 15% per annum
for both males and females. Based on these assumptions, the average future life expectancies at age 65 for the University are summarised
below:

Current Pensioners 2024 years 2023 years
Male 22.0 22.1
Female 247 24.7
Active members aged 45
Mate 225 22.6
Female 25.6 257
Asset Allocation
The major categories of plan assets as a percentage of total plan assets is set out below:
2024 2023
Equities 55% 59%
Property Th 6%
Bonds 37% 32%
Cash 1% 3%
100% 100%

59

Note 21

Notes to the Financial Statements
Defined Benefit Obligations (continued)

Local Government Pension Scheme (LGPS) (continued)
The amount included in the Statement of Financial Position in respect of the defined benefit pension plan is:

2024 2023
£'000 £000
Fair value of plan assets 69,098 61641
Present value of plan liabilities (62,800) (59.001)
Notional ptan surptus 6.298 2.640
Less notional plan surplus not recognised (6,298) (2,640)

Net pensions asset : =

The fair value of the University’s share of the assets and liabilities resulted in a net surplus at 31 July 2024 which the University did not recognise
in its Statement of Financial Position.

Amounts recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income in respect of the Plan are as

follows:
2024 2023
Amounts included in staff costs £000 £000
Current service cost 2379 3.644
Past service cost ~ 10
Interest on net defined benefit (asset)/liability _ ey
Total ——_—_—2:381_4.026,
Amounts recognised in Other Comprehensive Income 2024 2023
£000 £000
Asset gains/{losses) arising during the period 2,965 (2.172)
Liability gains arising during the period 846 16.409.
2,611 14.237
Movement in notional surplus not recognised (3,525) (2,640)
Amounts recognised in Other Comprehensive Income (734) L597,
The employee membership data at 31st March 2022 is set out below:
Active numbers
Deferred Pensi . a
eferred Pensioners 384
Pensioners 205
Changes in the present value of defined benefit obligations 2024 2023
£000 £000
Defined benefit obligations at start of period 59,001 69.995
Current service cost 2.379 3.644
Interest expense on defined benefit obligation 3,020 2.428
Contributions by participants 837 899
Actuarial gains on Liabilities (846) (16.409)
Net benefits paid out (14,59) (1.566)
Past service cost - 10
Defined benefit obligations at end of period 62,800 59.001
Changes to the fair value of assets 2024 2023
£'000 £000
Opening fair value of assets 61,641 59.268
Interest income on assets. 3.72 2,056
Re-measurement gains/(losses) on assets 1.965 (2372)
Employer contributions 3,075, 3.156
Contributions by participants 837 ‘899
Net benefits paid out (59)) (1,566)
Fair value of plan assets at end of period 6: 101 61.641
Actual return on assets 2024 2023
- £000 £000
Interest income on assets 3472 2.056
Gain/(Loss) on assets 19 65. @: 172)
Actual return on assets §.136. (G16)
Reconciliation of funded status to Statement of Financial 2024 2023
Position £000 £000
| 69,098 61641
Fair value of assets (62,800) {59.00
Present value of funded defined benefit obligation 6,298 2,640
Net asset (6,298) (2,640)

Less notional surplus not recognised
Balance to Statement of Financial Position

60

Note 22

Note 23

Notes to the Financial Statements

Financial instruments
The University has chosen to adopt Sections 11 and 12 of FRS 102 in fullin respect of financial instruments.

Financial assets and liabilities

Financial assets and financiat liabilities are recognised when the University becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.

Financial liabilities and equity are classified according to the substance of the financial instrument's contractual obligations rather than the
financial instrument's legal form.

All financial assets and liabilities are initially measured at transaction price (including transaction costs), except for those financial assets measured
at fair value through the profit or loss, which are initially measured at fair value (which is normally the transaction price excluding transaction
costs), unless arrangement constitutes a financing transaction. A financial asset or financial liability that is payable or receivable in one year is
measured at the undiscounted amount expected to be received or paid net of impairment, unless it is a financing transaction. If an arrangement
constitutes a financing transaction. the financial asset or liability is measured at the present value of the future payments discounted at a market
rate of interest for a similar debt instrument.

The financial instruments may be analysed as follows:

2024 2023
£000 £000
Financial assets that are debt instruments measured at amortised cost 35.508 37.734
Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost (55,240) (58.609)

Financial assets measured at amortised cost comprise cash and cash equivalents, investments and receivables.

Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost comprise mortgages, unsecured loans, finance leases. trade payables. accruals and other
payables.

Related party transactions

Due to the nature of the University's operations and the composition of the Board of Governors being drawn from tocal public and private sector
organisations, it is inevitable that transactions will take place with organisations in which a member of the Board of Governors may have an
interest. A Register of Governors’ interests is maintained by the University and updated at least annually. All transactions involving organisations
in which a member of the Board may have an interest are conducted at arms length and in accordance with the University's Financial Regulations
and follow standard procurement procedures.

61

Note 23

Related party transactions (continued)

Notes to the Financial Statements

The following transactions have been identified for disclosure in relation to those organisations related to senior staff and members of the Board
of Governors. The transactions have occurred in the normat course of the University's business.

Name of organisation

Advance HE

Embley Hampshire Collegiate School.

Rowans Hospice

Trinity Winchester

Winchester BID

Winchester Cathedral

Winchester Students’ Union

Nature of interest

One of the University's senior managers is a board member of
Advance HE.

One of our governors is a governor of Embley Hampshire
Collegiate School

One of our governors is a patron of Rowans Hospice.

One of the University's senior managers is a trustee of the Charity.
One of the University’s senior managers is a board member of
Winchester BID.

Several of the University’s governors have connections with
Winchester Cathedral.

The student governor on the Board of Governors is also a member
of the University of Winchester Students’ Union, which receives an
annuat grant from the University. All other transactions between
the two parties are conducted on a commercial basis.

{income)/
expenditure
£'000

8

@

6)
n

@
50

(233)
47

Debtor/
(creditor)
£000

The University has reviewed the sector guidance in relation to linked charities and has not identified any additional disctosure that is needed.

During 2023/24, no governor received any remuneration from the University for the work they do as a member of the Board of Governors (2023:
nil), Governors do receive compensation for travel costs. Members of the Board of Governors who are also members of staff of the University
receive remuneration in their capacity as members of staff only.

In the year to 31 July 2024. £1.039 was paid to members of the Board of Governors to reimburse costs incurred (2023: £372).

62

Page
43

43

62

62

43

56

43

43

43

Notes to the Financial Statements

Financial Responsibility Supplemental Schedule for the U.S. Department of Education

In satisfaction of its obligations to facilitate students’ access to US Federal Financial Aid, the University is required, by the US Department of
Education, to present the following Supplementat Schedule in a prescribed format.

The amounts within the schedules have been.

prepared under the historical cost convention, subject to the revaluation of certain fixed assets
prepared using United Kingdom generally accepted accounting practice. in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 102 (FRS 102) and the
Statement of Recommended Practice: Accounting for Further and Higher Education {2019 Edition)

presented in pounds sterling

The schedules set out how each amount disclosed has been extracted from the financial statements. As set out above, the accounting policies
used in determining the amounts disclosed are not intended to and do not comply with the requirements of accounting principles generally

accepted in the United States of America.

Primary Reserve ratio

Line item/related disctosure

Statement of Financial Position - Net assets
without donor restrictions

Statement of Financial Position - Net assets
with donor restrictions

Statement of Financial Position - Related
party receivable and Related party note
disclosure

Statement of Financial Position - Related
party receivable and Related party note
disclosure

Staternent of Financial Position - Property.
plant and equipment - net {includes
Construction in Progress)

Notes - Property, plant and equipment. net -
pre-implementation

Notes - Property. plant and equipment, net -
post-implementation with outstanding debt
for original purchase

Notes - Property, plant and equipment. net -
post-implementation without outstanding
debt for original purchase

Notes - Property, plant and equipment.
construction in progress

Statement of Financial Position - Lease right
of use assets, net

Notes - Lease right of use asset pre-
implementation

Notes - Lease right of use asset post-
implementation

Statement of Financial Position - goodwill

Statement of Financial Position - post
employment and pension liabilities

Statement of Financial Position - notes
payable and line of credit (current and tong-
term) and Line of Credit for Construction in

progress

Statement of Financial Position - notes
payable and line of credit (current and long-
term) and Line of Credit for Construction in
progress

Expendable Net Assets
Net assets without donor restrictions

Net assets with donor restrictions

Secured and unsecured related party receivable

Unsecured related party receivable

Property . plant and equipment. net (incl construction in progress)

Property, plant and equipment, net - pre-imptementation (less
construction in progress)

Property. plant and equipment net - post-implementation (less
construction in progress), with outstanding debt for original
purchase

Property, plant and equipment, net - post-imptementation (less.
construction in progress), without outstanding debt for original
purchase

Construction in progress
Lease right of use asset. net

Lease right of use asset - pre-implementation

Lease right of use asset - post-implementation
Intangible assets

Post-employment and pension liabilities

Long-term debt - for long-term purposes

Long-term debt - for long-term purposes pre-implementation

2023/24
£'000

267,044

45

79

79

202,489

140,881

36,362

4.866

205

67,647

60,132

2022/23
£ooo

169,092

43

203,662

145.976

41.740

661

1,676

65.052

61.419

63

Note 24

Page

43

4

4

41

Page
43

43

62

62

Notes to the Financial Statements

Financial Responsibility Supplemental Schedule for the U.S. Department of Education (continued)

Primary Reserve ratio (continued)

Line item/related disclosure

Statement of Financial Position - notes
payable and line of credit for long term
purposes (both current and long term) and
line of credit for CIP

Statement of Financial Position - notes
payable and line of credit (both current and
long term) and tine of credit for Construction
in progress

Statement of Financiat Position - lease right
of use of asset liability

Statement of Financial Position - lease right
of use of asset liability - pre-implementation

Statement of Financial Position - lease right
of use of asset liability - post implementation

Statement of Financial Position - Annuities

Statement of Financial Position - Term
Endowments

Statement of Financial Position - Life Income
Funds

Statement of Financial Position - Perpetual
Funds

Statement of Activities - Total operating
expenses. prior to adjustments.

Statement of Activities - Non-operating
(investment return appropriated for
spending), Investments net of annual
spending gain / (loss), Other components of
net periodic pension. Change in value of split
interest agreements and Other gains /
(losses). (Total from Statement of Activities
Prior to adjustments)

Statement of Activities - (Investment return
appropriated for spending), Investments net
of annual spending gain / (loss)

Statement of Activities -pension related
changes other than periodic pension

Equity Ratio

Line item/related disclosure
Statement of Financial Position - Net Assets
without donor restrictions

‘Statement of Financial Position - Net Assets
with donor restrictions
‘Statement of Financial Position - Goodwill

‘Statement of Financial Position - Related
party receivable and related party note

Statement of Financial Position - Related
Party receivable and related party note

Expendable Net Assets
Long-term debt - for long-term purposes post-implementation

Line of credit for Construction in Progress

Lease right of use asset liability

Pre-implementation right of use leases

Post-implementation right of use leases

Annuities with donor restrictions

Term Endowments with donor restrictions

Life Income funds with donor restrictions

Net assets with donor restrictions: restricted in perpetuity

Total expenses without donor restrictions - taken directly from
Statement of Activities

Non-Operating and Net investment (loss)

Net investment losses

Pension related changes other than net periodic costs - (gain) /
loss

Modified Net Assets
Net assets without donor restrictions

Net assets with donor restrictions
Intangible assets

Secured and Unsecured related party receivables

Unsecured related party receivables

2023/24
£000

45

85,409

(73)

714

2023/24
£'000
167,044

45

79

79

2022/23
£000

43

89,055,

(23)

(11.597)

2022/23
£000
169.092

43

64

Note 24

Page
43

62

62

Page
41

41

Notes to the Financial Statements

Financial Responsibility Supptemental Schedule for the U.S. Department of Education (continued)
Equity Ratio (continued)

Line item/related disclosure Modified Assets
Statement of Financial Position - Total Assets Total assets

Notes - Statement of Financial Position - Lease right of use asset - pre-implementation
lease of use asset - pre-implementation

Statement of Financial Position - lease of use Pre-implementation right of use leases
asset - liability pre-implementation

Statement of Financial Position - goodwill Intangible assets

Statement of Financial Position - Related Secured and Unsecured related party receivable
party receivable and related party note

Statement of Financial Position - Related Unsecured related party receivables
party receivable and related party note

Net Income Ratio

Line item/related disclosure Net Income Ratio

Statement of Activities - change in net assets Change in net assets without donor restriction
without donor restriction

Statement of Activities (net assets released Total Revenues and Gains
from restriction) total operating revenue and

other additions and sale of fixed assets gains

7 (losses)

2023/24
£'000

244,011

79

79

2023/24
£'000
(2,046)

84,075

2022/23
£000

247.151

2022/23
£000
8.164

85,622

65

| UNIVERSITY o¢
WINCHESTER

Administrative Information

Registered Office
University of Winchester
‘Sparkford Road
Winchester

Hampshire

S022 4NR

The University of Winchester is a private charitable company limited by guarantee in
Emngland and Wales. The University is registered with the Office for Students,

Company Registration Number
05969256

University Registration Number
UKPRN: 10003614 OP EID: 02149700

Senior Officers
Vice-Chancellor and Accountable Officer: Sarah Greer

Chief Operating Officer: Gavin Hunter

Pro-Vice Chancellors
‘Sam Jones, Angus Paddison and Matthew Webster

Principat Banker
NatWest Bank plc
105 High street
Winchester
Hampshire

$023 gAw

winchester.ac.uk

University of Winchester. Sparkford Road
Winchester, Hampshire, S022 4NR
Tel: +44 (O) 1962 841515

Extemal Auditor

Forvis Mazars LLP

and Floor. 6 Sutton Plaza
Sutton Court Road
Sutton

Surrey SM1 4FS

Internal Auditor
TIAA Ltd.
Artillery House
Fort Fareham
Newgate Lane
Fareham

PO14 1AH

Solicitors
Blake Morgan

New Kings Court, Toligate
Chandlers Ford

Eastleigh

Hampshire

S053. 3LG

