Registered number: 09903246

VIA EAST MIDLANDS LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

FOR THE YEAR ENDED 34 MARCH 2024

nN

AS 19/08/2024 #197
COMPANIES HOUSE

JONDAY

M

G Bishop Fleming

VIA EAST MIDLANDS LIMITED

COMPANY INFORMATION

DIRECTORS . RA Adair
. R | Jackson
M D Lugg OBE
D S Maher
K R Palframan (resigned 30 November 2023)
M J Walker
G Bicknell (appointed 30 November 2023)

COMPANY SECRETARY S'J Sargent (appointed 3 April 2023) _
REGISTERED NUMBER 09903246
REGISTERED OFFICE Bilsthorpe Depot

Bilsthorpe Business Park
Eakring Road

Bilsthorpe

Newark

NG22 8ST

INDEPENDENT AUDITORS Bishop Fleming LLP
Chartered Accountants & Statutory Auditors
Salt Quay House
4 North East Quay
Sutton Harbour
Plymouth
PL4 OBN

VIA EAST MIDLANDS LIMITED

CONTENTS

Strateg ic report
Directors’ report
Directors’ responsibilities statement
N.
Independent auditors’ report
Statement of income and retained earnings
Statement of financial position
Statement of cash flows

Analysis of net debt

_ Notes to the financial statements

Page
741-4

“47
18.

- 49-31

VIA EAST MIDLANDS LIMITED

STRATEGIC REPORT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

INTRODUCTION

Via East Midlands Limited, trading as Via, is a wholly owned subsidiary of Nottinghamshire County Council. Via
has an exclusive 10-year Term Service Contract (2016-2026), with the potential for a 5-year extension through to
2031. As a Teckal company, Via also undertakes third-party work with both public and private-sector
organisations.

As a business, and as a team, Via can deliver multi-disciplinary design and consultancy services, highway
maintenance, construction, signals and lighting, environmental management, fleet services and road safety. In
addition to this, Via provides key highway management services to Nottinghamshire County Council including
customer liaison, Street Works coordination and highway asset management.

Via continues to evaluate the current national and local political and socio-economic conditions, and the impact
they may have on the business over the short, medium, and long term.

As an organisation we will continue to develop the capability, competence, and capacity of our teams to support
our current delivery model, workstreams, and changing Nottinghamshire County Council priorities. We will
deliver our services primarily through our directly employed workforce, supported by local supply chain partners.
However, we need to continue to review and develop our organisational structures which is always a challenge to
balance in terms of timing and cost.

BUSINESS REVIEW

Via have had a very pleasing year in terms of operational delivery with a positive financial performance.
Workload remained high throughout the year and our teams continue to deliver, as well as maintaining and
displaying a high propensity for change. Winter pressures were challenging, particularly in relation to the state of
the highway due to adverse weather conditions as we emerged from winter.

Throughout 2023-2024 Via has continued to provide a high-level service to its primary client Nottinghamshire
County Council. Works delivered on behalf of the County Counci! supported the objectives of the County Council,
whilst ensuring that high quality, responsive and value for money services were delivered. Via has continued to
see growth of its third-party commercial activities across the last financial year, continuing to provide quality
services to other public and private sector clients, and we continue to operate in compliance with Section 12 of
the Public Contract Regulations 2015, otherwise known as Teckal Compliance.

Strong Safety, Health, Environment and Quality performance was maintained throughout 2023-2024, enabling
Via to achieve successful British Standards Institution visits. in July 2023 and January 2024. Continual
assessment was conducted on ISO (International Organisation for Standardisation) 45001, ISO 9001, and the
ISO 14001 was recertified. Safety Schemes In Procurement, National Highways Sector Scheme 8 and National
Electricity Registration Scheme accreditations were also maintained. There were no RIDDOR incidents and Via
currently has a RIDDOR accident frequency rate of 0.00 for the year.

Via have reviewed the maintenance work delivered for Nottinghamshire County Council and consolidated alll
delivery against fourteen asset groups ranging from carriageways and footways to soakaways and signs. This
work has clarified roles and responsibilities and in 2024-2025 will improve the allocation of funding and resource
which will lead to more efficient service delivery. Performance will be monitored through the monthly Asset
Management Board. The organisations propensity for change is high supported by a strong Senior Leadership
Team, strengthened by the appointment of an Asset Management Director and Finance Director. The extended
leadership team including the Head of Service leve! continues to grow from strength to strength. The County
Council have recognised Via’s role in supporting its challenging financial position, with colleagues across Via
working collaboratively to ensure that shared efficiencies are realised.

Overall Via has continued to face the economic challenges of price increases through the supply chain and such
costs are visible within the reduction of Via’s operation profits, during 2023/24 Via delivered pre-tax profit of
£715k during the twelve-month trading, 2024/25 financial year is forecasted to remain in line with 2023/24
results. : :

Page 1

VIA EAST MIDLANDS LIMITED

STRATEGIC REPORT (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 —

BUSINESS PLAN 2022-2025

Our vision is to support Nottinghamshire County Council (NCC) in the creation of an efficient, safe, and
~ sustainable highway network and environment, delivering integrated customer-focused services, value for
money, and supporting regeneration and economic growth.

Our mission as a wholly owned subsidiary of Nottinghamshire County Council is to be recognised both internally
and externally, as a best practice model in collaborative service delivery, which is socially responsible, focused
on value for money, quality of output and customer excellence.

Our values are to be visible, integrated, and accountable.

Via is committed to directly supporting Nottinghamshire County Council vision and ambitions of ‘A Healthy,
Prosperous and Greener Future for Everyone,’ with a focus on: -

- Improving health and wellbeing in all of our communities
Growing our economy and improving living standards
Reducing the County's impact on the environment
Helping everyone access the best of Nottinghamshire.

eoeee

Over the next few years Via will now be delivering the following business goals.

e Delivery of an agreed financial return to NCC respectively over three years, whilst maintaining a positive
cash, debt and WIP position, ensuring all contractor/supply chain partners’ payments are managed in line
with credit terms.

e Continuous development of our Integrated Management System focusing on maintaining an accident
frequency rate of zero as well as reducing our all-accident frequency rate and our lost time injury frequency
rate. We will also maintain BS 18045001:2018 including SSIP, 1S09001:2015 including NHSS8,
1S014001:2015 and NERS accreditation. We will also ensure compliance with our CDM, pre-construction
/design and risk management arrangements. :

e Continuous development of our Outcome-Based Performance Management Framework that meets the
aspirations / objectives of our customers — ensuring upper quartile KPI performance against all business
measures, underpinned by robust management information that supports the enhancement of service
delivery.

¢ Continued development and delivery of a sustainable third-party trading model, with active collaboration with
Nottinghamshire County Council, District, Borough and Parish Councils, Arc Partnership, other
Nottinghamshire County Council Alternative Service Delivery Models and SCAPE.

e Continued focus on Nottinghamshire County Council’s corporate priorities, and Client and Member
collaboration and engagement as advocates of Via.

To secure an extension of the wholly owned subsidiary model to 2031.

« To ensure Via is positioned within the Target Operating Model to support Nottinghamshire County Council's

plans for devolution. .

PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES

Commercial, risk and governance will underpin all our operational activity. We will develop strong internal
commercial capacity and capability, supported by strong commercial policies and procedures. We also have the
ability, where necessary, to call upon the services of our external legal partners.

It is Via’s policy to proactively identify, understand and manage the risks inherent in our products, services, and
plans to encourage. responsible and informed risk taking. Risk management is all about understanding,
assessing, and managing the organisations threats and opportunities.

Via accepts the need to take proportionate risk to achieve its strategic objectives, but expects these to be

appropriately identified, assessed, and managed. Through managing risks and opportunities in a structured
“manner, the organisation will be in a stronger position to.ensure it meets its objectives. .

Page 2

VIA EAST MIDLANDS LIMITED

STRATEGIC REPORT (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

The purpose of this Risk Management Strategy is to establish a framework for the effective and systematic
management of risk, which will ensure that risk management is embedded throughout Via and makes a real
contribution to the achievement of the organisation’s vision and objectives.

FINANCIAL KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Our financial model is underpinned by a clear strategy and plan, and a number of key drivers as set out below:

A three-year view

A quarter-by-quarter approach

Budget and cash flow management

A need for solid reserves

Organisational right sizing / succession planning, ensuring competence, capacity, and capabilities to deliver
changing Nottinghamshire County Council priorities and third-party growth.

A positive balance sheet / pension position

To support the ambitions within Nottinghamshire County Council's — The Nottinghamshire Plan 2021-2031

OTHER KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS

As per the contract with Nottinghamshire County Council, Via provides ‘contractual performance information to
the client on a quarterly basis. This is known as Via’s Performance Management Framework (PMF).

The performance metrics reported on are reviewed and agreed between Via and NCC on an annual basis to
ensure they reflect the required level of service provision. Any changes must be formally accepted at the Via
Company Board.

The KPI Summary Report is reviewed monthly for discussion with Via's Senior Leadership Team to ensure
’ corrective action is taken at the earliest possible stage. This includes three tiers of metric as defined below.

Key performance Indicators (KPI)
Performance across 2023-2024 remained high despite the said winter pressures and are underpinned by the
additional two measures below.

Performance Indicators (Pl) :
These metrics are key to understanding the overall performance of the highways service.

Legacy Matrix ; : '
These are made up of metrics that Via can provide to NCC to ensure longer-term trends associated with the
highways service are understood.

DIRECTORS' STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE WITH DUTY TO PROMOTE THE SUCCESS OF THE
COMPANY

‘The Directors are aware of their duty under s.172 of the Companies Act 2006 to act in the way they would
consider, in good faith, would be most likely to promote the success and benefit of the company and, in doing so,
to have regards (amongst other matters) to:

the likely consequences of decisions in the long term.

the.interests of the company’s employees.

the need to foster the company’s business relationships with suppliers, customers and others.
the impact of the company’s operations on the community and the environment.

the desirability of the company maintaining a reputation for high standards of business conduct.

Page 3

VIA EAST MIDLANDS LIMITED

STRATEGIC REPORT (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

This report was approved by the board and signed on its behalf,

M D Lugg OBE
Director

Date: 7 fugust 2024

Page 4

VIA EAST MIDLANDS LIMITED

DIRECTORS' REPORT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

The directors present their report and the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2024.
RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS
The profit for the year, after taxation, amounted to £680,135 (2023: £721,508).

The dividend amount declared in year was £600,000 (2023: £600,000).
) .
DIRECTORS

The directors who served during the year were:

R A Adair

RI Jackson

M D Lugg OBE

D S Maher

K R Palframan (resigned 30 November 2023)
MJWalker —

‘G Bicknell (appointed 30 November 2023)

FUTURE DEVELOPMENTS
BUSINESS GROWTH STRATEGY

Via’s primary focus is provision of multi-disciplinary design and construction services, highway maintenance,
electrical installation and maintenance, environmental consultancy, road safety advice, fleet services and in-
house training. Via is classed as a Teckal Company which allows the business to undertake third-party trading ©
across the public and private sector. The core works from Nottinghamshire County Council are a platform for
third-party growth, and Via’s geographical area of operation will primarily focus upon the footprint of the East
Midlands.

In a period of market volatility around the construction sector, it is important that Via stay rooted to the Public
Sector in its broadest sense, not precluding Private Sector opportunities. However, in all cases ensuring due
diligence is applied when selecting the right contracting partners for the business.

The Via team continues to grow its competence, capability, and capacity to deliver at pace, including its
response to the changing demands of Nottinghamshire County Council, an increase in the diversity, complexity,
and risk profile of projects, and to support sustainable third-party works. ,

Via have the organisational capability and capacity to operate within the following sectors: -

Public Sector

Private Sector

Housing

Education, Further Education and Higher Education .
Regeneration and Infrastructure \
Social and Healthcare .

Blue Light

Via will continue to focus on six equal priorities for growth, through demonstrable value for money, quality of
output and customer excellence: -

« Maximising all capital and revenue streams from Nottinghamshire County Council

e Maximising capital and revenue streams from Arc Property Services Partnership Ltd

« Maximising capital and revenue streams from other local authorities and the wider public sector across the
East Midlands

e Maximising reciprocal work from our delivery partners

Page 5

VIA EAST MIDLANDS LIMITED

DIRECTORS’ REPORT (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

e Optimising the efficient recovery of third-party charges on behalf of NCC to enable maximum reinvestment
into service delivery. ,

¢ Continue to work with NCC to monitor, identify, and bid against new and emerging funding opportunities at a
national and local level.

Social value

Via's Social Value Policy sets out how we will build social value into the procurement, commissioning, and
delivery of our services, ensuring it forms part of. Via and its supply chain partners method of operation. Only
those.organisations who share our ethos of social value delivery are successful in becoming a Via delivery
partner. : .

Whilst Via is committed to delivering social value, we and our delivery partners will be guided by our principal
client Nottinghamshire County Council, and third-party clients, to focus our efforts on their key drivers for every
project - ensuring that their local economic needs are met.

To attribute a financial value to this planned activity, we will use national social, economic, and environmental
measures developed by the National Social Value Taskforce — these provide a standardised, consistent
methodology to completing social value.

ENGAGEMENT WITH EMPLOYEES
Via continues to support regular top down and bottom-up communication involving all staff.

Via held an annual staff Conference over two days involving all employees, which provided an opportunity for the
senior leadership team to provide business updates consistently to all employees. Via's annual Employee
Satisfaction Survey took place in December 2023 with a 6% increase in response from the previous year’s
survey. The company engagement score for 2023 was 81%. Each Divisional Leadership Team are now
implementing the actions from the survey.

ENGAGEMENT WITH SUPPLIERS, CUSTOMERS AND OTHERS

Several key drivers were set at the establishment of Via, which included commitment to the development of a
local supply chain, particularly aimed at small and medium sized enterprises (SMEs) across the D2N2 Local
Enterprise Partnership area. Via is a Public Contracting Authority in its own right, procuring a range of highways
design, construction, maintenance, and infrastructure services on behalf of Nottinghamshire County Council. Via
will continue to deliver a mixed economy approach to procurement, underpinned by a commitment to local spend’
and employment. .

Via adhere to the regulations outlined in the Public Contract Regulations 2015 when conducting their
procurement processes. Our process ensures full compliance with aforementioned regulations to maintain
transparency and fairness. In line with our commitment to quality, we place a strong emphasis on assessing and
evaluating tender submissions based on quality criteria. This approach ensures that we not only comply with
legal requirements but also prioritise the delivery of high-quality goods and services to meet the needs of our
organisation.

In addition, Via will actively manage the transition to the new procurement Regulations, which is expected to go
live in October 2024. All current contracts and framework agreements will be managed in accordance with the
guidance established in the Transitionat and Savings Arrangements. Further, any new requirements post
October 2024, will be procured in accordance with the new Procurement Act 2024.

: Page 6

VIA EAST MIDLANDS LIMITED

DIRECTORS' REPORT (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

DISABLED EMPLOYEES

Via is an equal opportunity employer and is committed to a policy of treating all its employees, job applicants and
appreritices equally. Via avoids unlawful discrimination in all aspects of employment and training including
recruitment and selection, - promotion, transfer, opportunities for training, pay and benefits, other terms of
employment, discipline, or selection for redundancy and dismissal.

It is the policy of Via to take all reasonable steps to employ and promote employees on the basis of their abilities
and qualifications without regard to age, disability, gender reassignment, marriage and civil partnership,
pregnancy and maternity, race (including colour, nationality and ethnic or national origins), religion or belief, sex
and/or sexual orientation, these are known as the ‘protected characteristics’.

GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS, ENERGY CONSUMPTION AND ENERGY EFFICIENCY ACTION

Under the Companies (Directors’ Report) and Limited Liability Partnership (Energy and Carbon) Regulation
' 2018, Via is required to disclose its UK energy use and associated greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. This .
~ section covers the energy usage and associated GHG emissions relating to the consumption of gas, electricity
and fuel for transport purposes as required by the Regulations.

Data is included for the period 1st April 2023 to 31st March 2024 and includes a revised figure for 2022/2023 due
to missing and anomalies in.the data. This is the company's fifth reporting year and total GHG emissions per unit
turnover of revenue (tCO2/Emillion) has been chosen to measure the intensity ratio as this is a common .
business metric for our industry sector.

Energy Efficiency

Data for the 2023/2024 reporting period shows a 4% decrease in absolute GHG emissions in comparison to the
previous year 2022/2023.

x
There was a reduction in ‘Scope 1- Combustion of Fuel’ emissions following the ban of Red Diesel which, has
contributed to the overall reduction in emissions. A slight increase in ‘Scope 1- Operation of facilities’ is in line
with increased business activity along with ‘Scope 2- Purchased Electricity’ emissions.

Via continues to offer.a hybrid working model, thus reducing travel, and enabling staff to maintain.a work-life
balance. Office based staff have the opportunity to work a maximum of 2 days at home. Homeworking data has
been included in the reporting for 2022/2023 & 2023/2024 based on FTE working hours.

Although some of Via's energy contracts provided green energy during the reporting period, it is unknown as to
whether the supply was fully renewable and therefore, this data has not been deducted from the total emissions.
However, Via has recently switched energy contracts to green tariffs for 24/25 which, will be reflected in future
reporting. A full energy review of Via’s depots will be carried out in the future to further improve energy efficiency.

During the reporting period, EV charging was opened to staff to charge private vehicles on site which, has
contributed to the increase in scope 2: emissions This aligns with Via’s. salary sacrifice scheme that promotes
electric and hybrid vehicles. At Via's main Bilsthorpe Depot, solar panels and a wood pellet boiler are installed
resulting in an estimated 84 tonne carbon saved when compared with LPG.

Over the past year, there have been significant developments in waste management with the introduction of
internal recycling which, has resulted in a carbon reduction. Further work will be undertaken to improve Via’s
waste management to ensure increased recycling continues. This is supported by the recent release of a new
waste management operating procedure.

In order to accurately understand Via’s Carbon Footprint, external verification will be undertaken during the

summer of 2024/2025. This will enable Via to capture more ‘Scope 3’ and ‘Outside of Scope’ data therefore,
gaining a full insight into its emissions and necessary actions required to reduce carbon and reach net zero.

Page 7

VIA EAST MIDLANDS LIMITED

‘DIRECTORS’ REPORT (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

_ Methodology and Approach
The UK Government Environmental Reporting Guidelines have been followed and the UK Governments / BEIS /
DEFRA GHG Conversion Factors 2022 referred to. The operational control consolidation approach | has been
used to account for GHG emissions for the company’s operational activities, :
The calculations cover the following emission types:
Direct emissions (Scope 1):
* ‘Combustion of fuel-for transport purposes
« Combustion of gas from stationary or mobile activities
e Combustion of fuel for heating purposes
Indirect emissions (Scope 2):
« Electricity purchased by the company for its own use.

Other indirect emissions (Scope 3):

° Business travel in employee-owned / hire vehicles’ for which employees are reimbursed following claims for
business mileage

« Waste disposal

e Electricity transmission and distribution losses associated with purchased energy (also for EVs)

Annual Greenhouse Gas Emissions Data

GHG Emissions (Tonnes of
COze)
2022/23 ©
{as restated)

30.67) - 33.23

Scope 1
Operation of facilities

Combustion of fuel 1,440.82 1,357.31

Scope 2
Purchased energy ; * 133.80 206.67

Scope 3

Business travel

Waste disposal

Purchased energy transmission and distribution losses ~ :
irene ment

Total GHG emissions per unit tumover of revenue
(tCOzEmillion)

Page 8

VIA EAST MIDLANDS LIMITED

DIRECTORS‘ REPORT (CONTINUED) ’
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO AUDITORS
Each of the persons who are directors at the time when this Directors’ report is approved has confirmed that:

. so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the company's auditors are
unaware, and

e - the director has taken all the steps that ought to have been taken as a director in order to be aware of any
relevant audit information and to establish that the company's auditors are aware of that information.

POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS ~

There have been no significant events affecting the company since the year end.

AUDITORS

The auditors, Bishop Fleming LLP, will be proposed for reappointment in accordance with section 485 of the
Companies Act 2006.

This report was approved by the board and sighed on its behalf.

M D Lugg OBE
Director

ose T-AUMUSE 2024 : a |
Bilsthorpe Dépot

Bilsthorpe Business Park

Eakring Road

Bilsthorpe

Newark

NG22 8ST

Page 9

VIA EAST MIDLANDS LIMITED

DIRECTORS' RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

The directors are responsible for preparing the Strategic report, the Directors’ report and the financial statements
in accordance with applicable law and regulations.

Company faw requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year..Under that law the
directors have elected to prepare the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom
Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice), including Financial Reporting
Standard 102 ‘The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland’. Under company
law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair
view of the state of affairs of the company and of the profit or loss of the company for that period.

In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to:

. select suitable accounting policies for the company's financial statements and then apply them
consistently;

. make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent;

. state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures

disclosed and explained in the financial statements;

° prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the
company will continue in business.

The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain
the company's transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the
company and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They
are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the
prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities. .

Hon. shee

Page 10

ae

VIA EAST MIDLANDS LIMITED

INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF VIA EAST MIDLANDS LIMITED

OPINION —

We have audited the financial statements of Via East Midlands Limited (the 'company’) for the year ended 31
March 2024, which comprise the Statement of income and retained earnings, the Statement of financial position,
the Statement of cash flows and the related notes, including a summary of significant accounting policies. The
financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom
Accounting Standards, including Financial Reporting Standard 102 ‘The Financial Reporting Standard applicable
in the UK and Republic of Ireland’ (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).

In our opinion the financial statements:
. y
. ‘give a true and fair view of the state of the company's affairs as at 31 March 2024 and of its profit for the
year then ended;

. have been properly prepared in accordance with United kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting
Practice; and :
. _have'been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
: \

BASIS FOR OPINION

We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) (ISAs (UK)) and applicable
law. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit
of the financial statements section of our report. We are independent of the company in accordance with the
ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the United Kingdom, including
the Financial Reporting Council's Ethical Standard and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in
accordance with these requirements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and
appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.

CONCLUSIONS RELATING TO GOING CONCERN

In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the directors' use of the going concern basis of
accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate.

Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified any material uncertainties relating to events or ..

conditions that, individually or collectively, may cast significant doubt on the company's ability to continue as a
going concern for a period of at least twelve months from when the financial statements are authorised for issue.

Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the directors with respect to going concern are described i in the
relevant sections of this report.

_OTHER INFORMATION

The other information comprises the information included in the Annual Report other than the financial
statements and our Auditors’ report thereon. The directors are responsible for the other information contained
within the Annual Report. Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and,
except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion
thereon. Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other
information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the course of the
audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent
material misstatements, we are required to determine whether this gives rise to a material misstatement in the
financial statements themselves. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material
misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.

We have nothing to report in this regard.

Page 11

VIA EAST MIDLANDS LIMITED

INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF VIA EAST MIDLANDS LIMITED
(CONTINUED)

OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES ACT 2006

In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit:

. the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors’ report for the financial year for which the
financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements; and
. the Strategic report and the Directors’ report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal

requirements.
MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION

In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the company and its environment obtained in the course of
the audit, we have not identified material misstatements in the Strategic report or the Directors’ report.

\
We have nothing ‘to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the Companies Act 2006
requires us to report to you if, in our opinion:

. adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not been
received from branches not visited by us; or

. the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or

. certain disclosures of directors' remuneration specified by law are not made; or *

« we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit:
RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS

As explained more fully in the Directors' responsibilities statement set out on page 10, the directors are
responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair
view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial
statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.

In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the company's ability to
continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going
concern basis of accounting unless.the directors either intend to liquidate the company or to cease operations, or
have no realistic alternative but to do so.

Page 12

VIA EAST MIDLANDS LIMITED

INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF VIA EAST MIDLANDS LIMITED
(CONTINUED)

_ AUDITORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free
from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an Auditors’ report that includes our
Opinion. Reasonable assurance.is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted ‘in
accordance with ISAs (UK). will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise
- from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be *
expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.

Irregularities, including fraud, are instances.of non-compliance with laws and regulations. We design procedures
in tine with our responsibilities, outlined above, to detect material misstatements in respect of irregularities,
including fraud: The extent to which our procedures are capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud is
detailed below:

« We have considered the nature of the industry and sector, control environment, and financial performance;

e We have considered the results of enquiries with management and the directors in relation to their own
identification and assessment of the risks of irregularities within the entity; and

e« -We have reviewed the documentation of key processes and controls and performed walkthroughs of
transactions to confirm that the systems are operating in line with documentation.

« We have considered the matters discussed among the audit engagement team regarding how and where
fraud might occur in the financial statements and any potential indicators of fraud.

As a result of these procedures, we have considered the opportunities and incentives that may exist within the
organisation for fraud and identified the highest area of risk to be in relation to revenue recognition, with a ~
particular risk in relation to year-end cut-off. In common with all audits under ISAs (UK) we are also required to
perform specific procedures to respond to the risk of management-override. :

We have also obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that the Company operates in,
focusing on provisions of those laws and regulations that had a direct effect on the determination of material
amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. The key laws and regulations we considered in this context
included the UK Companies Act, FRS 102 and UK tax legislation.

In addition, we considered provisions of other laws and regulations that do not have a direct effect on the
financial statements but compliance with which may be fundamental to the Company's ability to operate or avoid
a material penalty. These include highways legislation, data protection legislation, health and safety regulations,
environmental regulations, employment law.

Our procedures to respond to risks identified included the following:

« Reviewing the financial statement disclosures and testing to supporting documentation to assess compliance
with provisions of relevant laws and regulations described as having a direct effect on the financial
statements;

« Enquiring of management in relation to actual and potential claims or litigation;

¢ » Performing analytical procedures to identify unusual or unexpected relationships that may indicate risks of
material misstatement due to fraud;

¢ Reviewing board meeting minutes;

¢ Performing detailed transactional testing in relation to the recognition of revenue with a particular focus
around the year-end cut off including the agreement of year end balances with Nottinghamshire County
Council; and

e In addressing the risk of fraud through management override of controls, testing the appropriateness of
journal entries and other adjustments; assessing whether the judgments made in accounting estimates are
indicative of potential bias; and evaluating. the business rationale of significant transactions that are unusual
or outside the normal course of business.

We also communicated identified laws and Jegulations and potential fraud risks to all’ members of the
engagement team and remained alert to possible indicators of fraud or non-compliance with laws and
regulations throughout the audit.

Page 13

VIA EAST MIDLANDS LIMITED

_INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF VIA EAST MIDLANDS LIMITED
(CONTINUED)

Our audit procedures were designed to respond to risks of material misstatement in the financial statements,
recognising that the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not
detecting one resulting from an error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery,
misrepresentations or through collusion. There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures performed and the
further. removed non-compliance with laws and regulations is from the events and transactions reflected in the
financial statements, the less likely we would become aware of it. ,

A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial
Reporting Council's website at: www.fre.org. uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This description formis part of our
Auditors’ report.

USE OF OUR REPORT

This report is made solely ta the company's members, as a bady, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the
Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company's members
those matters we are required to state to them in an Auditors’ report and for no other purpose. To the fullest -
extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the
company's members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.

Nathan smh FCA (Senior statutory auditor)
for and on behalf of
Bishop Fleming LLP
Chartered. Accountants
Statutory Auditors

Salt Quay House

4 North East Quay
Sutton Harbour
Plymouth

PL4 OBN

Pogest ICD4

Page 14

VIA EAST MIDLANDS LIMITED

STATEMENT OF INCOME AND RETAINED EARNINGS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

As restated

2024 2023
Note £ £
Turnover 4 70,773,489 68,536,354
Cost of sales ; (63,673,570) (62,243,670)
Gross profit . ; 7,099,919 6,292,684
Administrative expenses (7,094,334) (6,321,247)
Other operating income . 5 607,768 743,613
Operating profit : ‘ , 6 613,353 715,050
Interest receivable’and similar income : ; 10 116,464 -
Interest payable and similar expenses : : 41 (14,651) (1,045)
Profit before tax ., . ‘ 715,166 714,005 -
Tax on profit 12 (35,031) 7,503
Profit after tax : , 680,135 721,508
Retained earnings at the beginning of the year , 2,243,508 : 2,122,000
Profit for the year ~ ; 680,135 721,508
Dividends declared - . t . 13 (600,000) (600,000)
_ Retained earnings at the end of the year 2,323,643 2,243,508

There were no recognised gains and losses for 2024 or 2023 other than those included in the statement of
’ income and retained earnings.

The notes on pages 19 to 31 form part of these financial statements.

x

Page 15

VIA EAST MIDLANDS LIMITED
REGISTERED NUMBER:09903246

STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION
AS AT 31 MARCH 2024 . 2

2024 2024 2023 2023
. Note £ £ £- . £
Fixed assets .
Tangible assets 14 4,130,036 3,384,019
Current assets ,
Stocks . 15 1,062,819 _ 1,207,968
Debtors: amounts falling due within one year 16 12,856,321 8,343,040
Cash at bank and in hand 17 5,206,396 ; 4,158,346
19,125,536 13,709,354
Creditors: amounts falling due within one . : .
year eo, 18 (17,028,740) : (11,198,735)
Net current assets . 2,096,796 2,510,619
Total assets less current liabilities . : 6,226,832 _ 5,894,638
Creditors: amounts falling due after more :
than one year 19 (2,359,556) (2,082,067)
Provisions for liabilities , .
Other provisions 20° (1,543,533) (1,568,963)
Net assets , —_ 2,323,743 2,243,608
Capital and reserves :
Called up share capital 21 100 . 100
Profit and loss account . 22 2,323,643 2,243,508 ~_

2,323,743 2,243,608
The financial statements were approved and authorised for issue by the board and were signed on its behalf by:

M D Lugg OBE
Director

Date: TAU 2024

The notes on pages 19 to 31 form part of these financial statements.

Page 16

‘VIA EAST MIDLANDS LIMITED

STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

Cash flows from operating activities

Profit for the financial year
Adjustments for:

Depreciation of tangible assets

-(Profit)/loss on disposal of tangible assets
Government grants ;

Interest paid _

Interest received

Taxation charge .

Decrease/(increase) in stocks
(Increase)/decrease in debtors :
(Increase)/decrease in amounts owed by groups
Increase in creditors

Increase/(decrease) in amounts owed to groups
Increase in provisions

Corporation tax (paid) :

Net cash generated from operating activities:

Cash flows from investing activities

Purchase of tangible fixed assets
Sale of tangible fixed assets
Interest received

Government grants received

Net cash from investing activities

Cash flows from financing activities | ;
Dividends paid ;
Interest paid

Net cash used in financing activities

Net increase in cash and cash equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents at-beginning of year
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of year

Cash and cash equivalents at the end of year comprise:
Cash at bank and in hand. ‘

Page 17

2024

680,135

1,453,247
(607,768)
14,651
(116,464)
35,034
145,149
(1,299,630)
(3,213,651)
2,277,107
3,157,421
84,832
(120,497)

2,459,563

(2,199,263)

116,464
1,285,937

(796,862)

(600,000)
(14,651)

(614,651)

1,048,050
4,158,346

5,206,396

. 5,206,396

5,206,396

2023

721,508

958,843
(10,356)
(743,613)
1,045
(7,503)
(325,653)
724,393
4,173,082
564,396
(377,644)
736,755 —
(152,947)

"3,262,306

(1,659,676)
82,845

743,613

(833,218)

(600,000)
(1,045)

(601,045)

1,828,043

2,330,303

4,158,346

4,158,346

4,158,346

VIA EAST MIDLANDS LIMITED

ANALYSIS OF NET DEBT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

At 1 April At 31 March

2023 ' Cash flows 2024
; : £ £ £
Cash at bank and in hand . 4,158,346 1,048,050 5,206,396

4,158,346 1,048,050 5,206,396

The notes on pages 19 to 31 form part of these financial statements.

Page 18

VIA EAST MIDLANDS LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

1.

GENERAL INFORMATION

The company (registered number 09903246) is a private company, limited by shares and registered in
England and Wales. The registered office address is Bilsthorpe Depot Bilsthorpe, Business Park, Eakring
Road, Bilsthorpe, Newark, NG22 8ST.

ACCOUNTING POLICIES

241

2.2

2.3

BASIS OF PREPARATION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention unless otherwise
specified within these accounting policies and in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 102,
the Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and the Republic of Ireland and the
Companies Act 2006.

The preparation of financial statements in compliance with FRS 102 requires the use of certain
Critical accounting estimates. It also. requires management to exercise judgement in applying the
company's accounting policies (see note 3).

- The following principal accounting policies have been-applied:

GOING CONCERN

The directors have considered the future profitability of the company and forecast positive cashflows.
for the future after taking account of reasonable possible changes in trading performance. The
company has secured the continued on-going support from Nottinghamshire County Council.

As such the directors have reasonable expectation that the company has adequate resources to
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. Thus they continue to adopt the going
concern basis of accounting i in n preparing the financial statements.

REVENUE

Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the
company and the revenue can be reliably measured. Revenue is measured as the fair value of the
consideration received or receivable, excluding discounts, rebates, value added tax, other sales
taxes and sales within the company. The following criteria must also be met before revenue is |
recognised: |

Rendering of services

Revenue from a contract to provide services is recognised in the period in which the services are
provided in accordance with the stage of completion of the contract when all of the following
conditions are satisfied:

« the amount of revenue can be measured reliably;

¢ itis probable that the company will receive the consideration due under the contract;

e the stage of completion of the contract at the end of the reporting period can be measured
reliably;

e and the costs incurred and the costs to complete the contract can be measured reliably.

Page 19

VIA EAST MIDLANDS LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

2. | ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued)

2.4

2.5

2.6

2.7

2.8

2.9

LONG-TERM CONTRACTS

Profit on long-term contracts is taken as the work is carried out if the final outcome can be assessed
with reasonable certainty. The profit included is calculated on a prudent basis to reflect the proportion
of the work carried out at the year end, by recording turnover and related costs as contract activity
progresses.

Turnover is calculated as that proportion of total contract value which costs incurred to date bear to
total expected costs for that contract. Revenues derived from variations on contracts are recognised
only when they have been accepted by the customer. Full provision is made for losses on all

‘contracts in the year in which they are first foreseen.

OPERATING LEASES: THE COMPANY AS LESSEE

Rentals paid under operating leases are charged to profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the
lease term. -

Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to sign an operating lease are recognised on a
straight-line basis over the lease term, unless another systematic basis is ‘representative of the time
pattern of the lessee's benefit from the use of the leased asset.

GOVERNMENT GRANTS

Grants are accounted under the accruals model as permitted by FRS 102. Grants relating to
expenditure on tangible fixed assets are credited to profit or loss at the same rate as the depreciation
on the assets to which the grant relates. The deferred element of grants is included in creditors as
deferred income.

Grants of a revenue nature are recognised in the Statement of income and retained earnings in the
same period as the related expenditure.

INTEREST INCOME

Interest income is recognised in the Statement of income and retained earnings in the year in which it
is receivable. : .

FINANCE COSTS

Interest expenditure is recognised in the Statement of income and retained earnings in the year in

_ which it is payable.

PENSIONS

The company participates in the Local Government Pension Scheme,:a defined benefit scheme
managed by Nottinghamshire County Council. The assets of the scheme are invested independently
of the finances of the company. Contributions are made to the scheme in accordance: with the
recommendations of the independent actuary in respect of current and future service. -

On transfer of staff to Via East Midlands, Nottinghamshire County Council have retained
responsibility for the deficit of the Local Government Pension Scheme that relates to staff transferred.
As a result, the company has not recognised any pension liability and the pension scheme is
therefore accounted for as a defined contribution scheme.

The company also participates in a defined contribution pension scheme. Payments to this defined
contribution scheme are charged as an expense when they fall due.

Page 20

VIA EAST MIDLANDS LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

2.

ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued)

2.10 TAXATION

Tax is recognised in profit or loss except that a charge attributable to an item of income and expense
recognised as other comprehensive income or to an item recognised directly in equity is also
recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity respectively.

.The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of tax rates and laws that have been
/enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date in the countries where the company operates
and generates income.

Deferred tax balances are recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not
reversed by the reporting date, except that:

. The recognition of deferred tax assets is limited to the extent that it is probable that they will be
recovered against the reversal of deferred tax liabilities or other future taxable profits; and

. Any deferred tax balances are reversed if and when all conditions for retaining associated tax
allowances have been met.

Deferred tax balances are not recognised in respect of permanent differences except in respect of
business combinations, when deferred tax is recognised on the differences between the fair values of
assets acquired and the future tax deductions available for them and the differences between the fair
values of liabilities acquired and the amount that will be assessed for tax. Deferred tax is determined
using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date.

2.11 TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS

Tangible fixed assets under the cost model are stated at historical cost less accumulated
depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses. Historical cost includes expenditure that is
directly attributable to bringing the asset to the location and condition necessary for it to be capable of
operating in the manner intended by management.

At each reporting date the company assesses whether there is any indication of impairment. If such
indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is determined which is the higher of its fair
value less costs to sell and its value in use. An impairment loss is recognised where the carrying
amount exceeds the recoverable amount.

Depreciation: is charged so as to allocate the cost of assets less their residual value over their
estimated useful lives, using the straight-line method.

The estimated useful lives range as follows:

Freehold property - 10 years
Plant and machinery . - - 1 to 10 years
Computer equipment - 3to5 years.

The assets’ residual values, useful lives and depreciation methods are reviewed, and adjusted
prospectively if appropriate, or if there is an indication of a significant change since the last reporting
date..

Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the proceeds with the carrying amount
and are recognised in profit or loss.

Page 21

VIA EAST MIDLANDS LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

2. ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued)

2.12 STOCKS

Stocks are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value, being the estimated selling price less
costs to complete and sell. Cost is based on the cost of purchase on a weighted average basis.

At each reporting date, stocks are assessed for impairment. If stock is impaired, the carrying amount
is reduced to its selling price less costs to complete and sell. The impairment loss is recognised
immediately in profit or loss.

2.13 DEBTORS

Short-term debtors are measured at transaction price, less any impairment. Loans receivable are
measured initially at fair value, net of transaction costs, and are measured subsequently at amortised
cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment.

2.14 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS

Cash is répresented by cash in hand and deposits with financial institutions repayable without penalty
on notice of not more than 24 hours. Cash equivalents are highly liquid investments that mature in no
more than three months from the date of acquisition and that are readily convertible to known
amounts of cash with insignificant risk of change in value.

In the Statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents are shown net of bank overdrafts that are
repayable on demand and form an integral part of the company's cash management.

2.15 CREDITORS

Short-term creditors are measured at the transaction price. Other financial liabilities, including bank
loans, are measured initially at fair value, net of transaction costs, and are measured subsequently at
amortised cost using the effective interest method.

2.16 PROVISIONS FOR LIABILITIES

‘Provisions are recognised when an event has taken place that gives rise to a legal or constructive
- obligation, a transfer of economic benefits is probable and a reliable estimate can be made.

Provisions are measured as the best estimate of the amount required to settle the obligation, taking
into account the related risks and uncertainties.

Increases in provisions are generally charged as an expense to profit or loss.
2.17 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

The company only enters into basic financial instrument transactions that result in the recoghition of
financial assets and liabilities like trade and other debtors and creditors, and loans to and from
related parties.

Debt instruments (other than those wholly repayable or receivable within one year), including loans
and other accounts receivable and payable, are initially measured at present value of the future cash
flows and subsequently at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Debt instruments that
are payable or receivable within one year, typically trade debtors and creditors, are measured, initially
and subsequently, at the undiscounted amount ofthe cash or other consideration expected to be paid
or received. However, it the arrangements of a short-term instrument constitute a financing
transaction, like the payment of a trade debt deferred beyond normal business terms or in case of an
out-right short-term loan that is not at market rate, the financial asset or liability is measured, initially
at the present value of future cash flows discounted at a market rate of interest for a similar debt
instrument and subsequently at amortised cost, unless it qualifies as a loan from a director in the

Page 22

VIA EAST MIDLANDS LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

2. ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued)

2.17 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
case of a small company, or a public benefit entity concessionary loan.

‘Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the Statement of Financial
Position when there is an enforceable right to set off the recognised amounts and there is an
intention to settle on a’net basis or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.

2.18 DIVIDENDS

Equity dividends are recognised when they become legally payable. Interim equity dividends are
recognised when paid. Final equity dividends are recognised when approved by the shareholders at
an annual general meeting.

3. JUDGEMENTS IN APPLYING ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION
UNCERTAINTY

Preparation of the financial statements requires management to make significant judgements and
estimates. The items in the financial statements where these judgements and estimates have been made
include:

Provisions for remedial works are recognised by the company using judgement based on past experience
- and the company's record of requiring remedial action. ,

Provisions for possible professional indemnity claims that are uninsurable -and potential professional
indemnity excesses are recognised by the company at a level based on business experience.

A vehicles provision has been made to cover works required to ensure vehicles can be returned to
operational status, the company has had to estimate these costs.

Valuation ‘of incomplete contracts at the year-end: contracts are valued (both in terms of cost and
revenue) by the in house team based on their experience in the industry and their knowledge of the
contract in question.
When considering lease arrangements, an adjustment has been made to recognise the tangible fixed
assets leased from Nottinghamshire County Council on the company's Statement of Financial Position as
it is considered that the risks and rewards of ownership of the assets lie with the company.

4. TURNOVER. 4

The whole of the turnover is attributable to highways maintenance and facilities management.

All turnover arose within the United Kingdom. : . :

Page 23 .

VIA EAST MIDLANDS LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

5. OTHER OPERATING INCOME

2024 . 2023
£ £
Release of government capital grants 607,768 — 743,613

. The company has received government grants to fund the expenditure of tangible fixed assets.

6. OPERATING PROFIT

The operating profit is stated after charging:

- 2024 2023
£ Zt
Depreciation of tangible fixed assets ; . 1,453,246 958,843
(Profit)/loss on disposal of tangible fixed assets - (10,356)
Operating lease rentals 103,070 103,070

1,556,316 = 1,051,557

7. AUDITORS’ REMUNERATION

During the year, the company obtained the following services from the company's auditors and their

associates:
2024 2023
£ £
Fees payable to the company's auditors and their associates for the audit of
the company's financial statements 33,500 33,250
Fees payable to the company's auditors and their associates.in respect of: \
Taxation compliance services . 2,950 2,725

Page 24

VIA EAST MIDLANDS LIMITED =.

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
_FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

8. EMPLOYEES

Staff costs, including directors’ remuneration, were as follows:

5

Wages and salaries
Social security costs
Cost of defined contribution and benefit schemes

2024
£

20,406,792
2,001,046
2,630,573

25,038,411

2023

; £
17,984,395
1,850,613
2,387,747

22,222,755

The average monthly number of employees, including the directors, during the year was as follows:

Design and Consultancy
Operations :
School Crossing Patrol
Network Management
Resources

9. DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION

Directors’ emoluments ;
Company contributions to defined contribution pension schemes -
Amounts paid to third parties in respect of directors’ services

2024
No.

116

257

63
165
110

714

2024
£

70,000
4,200
114,180

188,380

2023
No.
124
273
69
154
82

702

2023 -

£

206,855
21,123
36,000

263,978

During the year retirement benefits were accruing to 1 director > (2028: 2) in respect of defined contribution

pension schemes.

The highest paid director received remuneration of £102, 166 (2023: £124,657).

‘The value of the company's contributions paid to a defined contribution pension scheme in respect of the

highest paid director amounted to £12,014 (2023: £18,526).

Page. 25

VIA EAST MIDLANDS LIMITED -

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS .
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

10.

11.

12.

INTEREST RECEIVABLE

Other interest receivable

INTEREST PAYABLE AND SIMILAR EXPENSES

~ Other loan interest payable

TAXATION

CORPORATION TAX

Current tax on profits for the year
Adjustments in respect of previous periods

- TOTAL CURRENT TAX

FACTORS AFFECTING TAX CHARGE FOR THE YEAR

2024
£

116,464

2024
J£

14,651

2024

44,347

(9,316)

35,031

2023

2023

1,045 ~~

2023

120,497
(128,000)

(7,503)

The tax assessed for the year is lower than (2023: lower than) the standard rate of corporation tax in the

UK of 25% (2023: 19%). The differences are explained below:

S

Profit on ordinary activities before tax

Profit on ordinary activities multiplied by standard rate of corporation tax in
the UK of 25% -(2023: 19%)

EFFECTS OF:

Movement in deferred tax not recognised
Fixed asset differences

; (Income)/expenses not taxable for tax purposes

Remeasurement of deferred tax for changes in current tax rates
Adjustments to tax charge in respect of prior periods
Changes in provisions leading to an increase (decrease) in the tax charge

TOTAL TAX CHARGE FOR THE YEAR

Page 26

2024
£

715,166

178,792

(20,659)
(3)
(33,521)

~ (9,316)

(80,262)

35,031

2023
£

714,005

135,661

(92,801)
(44,646)

100,011
22,272

(128,000)

(7,503)

VIA EAST MIDLANDS LIMITED

‘NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

12.

13.

14.

15.

TAXATION (CONTINUED) _

FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE TAX CHARGES

ue

The main rate of corporation tax increased to 25% at the start of the period, with effect from 1 April 2023.

DIVIDENDS"

Dividends declared

TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS

COST
At 1.April 2023
Additions

At 31 March 2024
DEPRECIATION

At 1 April 2023 ;
Charge for the year on owned assets

At 31 March 2024

’ NET BOOK VALUE

At 31 March 2024 ©

At 31 March 2023

STOCKS

Finished goods and goods for resale

Freehold

property
££

243,175

243,175 ©

72,952
24,317

97,269

‘

145,906

"170,223

Page 27

‘Plant‘and |

machinery
£

7,868,618
2,063,875

9,932,493

5,012,633
1,223,615

6,236,248

3,696,245

2,855,985

2024
£

600,000

Computer
equipment
£

517,997
135,388

653,385

160,186
205,314.

365,500

287,885

357,811

2024

1,062,819

2023
£

- 600,000

Total
£

8,629,790
2,199,263

10,829,053

"5,245,774
" 4,453,246

6,699,017

4,130,036

3,384,019

2023
£

1,207,968

VIA EAST MIDLANDS LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

16.

17.

19.

DEBTORS

Trade debtors

Amounts owed by group undertakings
Other debtors

Prepayments and accrued income

. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS

Cash at bank and in hand

CREDITORS: AMOUNTS FALLING DUE WITHIN ONE YEAR

Trade creditors
Amounts owed to group undertakings
Corporation tax

‘Other taxation and social security

Other creditors
Accruals and deferred income

’

CREDITORS: AMOUNTS FALLING DUE AFTER MORE THAN ONE YEAR

Accruals and deferred income

Page 28

2024 |

£

1,359,313.
9,919,191
94,020
1,483,797

12,856,321

2024
£

5,206,396

2024

£
5,884,103
5,219,166
115,293
1,247,648
317,089
4,245,441

17,028,740

2024
£

2,359,556

2023
£

994,573
6,705,373
99,472
543,622

8,343,040

2023
£

4,158,346

2023
£
4,705,372
2,061,870
120,497
1,736,592
315,919
2,258,485

11,198,735

2023
£

2,082,067 -

VIA EAST MIDLANDS LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 . ‘

20.

21,

22.

23.

PROVISIONS

Uninsured -
and ~
Remedial Tax Operational

Works Provisions Provisions Total

£ £ £ . £

At 1 April 2023 ; 849,629 236,334 483,000 1,568,963
Charged to profit or loss (10,345) (192,085) 177,000 (25,430)
AT 31 MARCH 2024 . : 839,284 44,249 660,000 , 1,543,533

Provisions for possible professional indemnity claims that are uninsurable and potential professional
indemnity excesses are recognised by the company at a level based on business experience (year-end
balance: £304,811). Provisions for remedial works are recognised by the company using judgement
based on past experience and the company's record of requiring. remedial action (year-end balance:

£534,473). . . ,

A tax provision has been set up to cover a potential corporation tax liability and Construction Industry
Scheme (CIS) tax liability. The corporation tax provision was fully released in the year.

Operational provisions have been made to cover works required to ensure vehicles can: be returned to
operational status, maintenance works required at the Bilsthorpe depot, uninvoiced water charges in
respect of the Bilsthorpe depot, and rates payments at the Ashfield depot.

SHARE CAPITAL
. 2024 - 2023
. £ £
ALLOTTED, CALLED UP AND FULLY PAID

100 (2023: 100) ordinary shares of £1.00 each ; 100 100

RESERVES

Profit and loss account ; ~

Profit and loss: account comprises all current and prior period accumulated profits and losses, after
declared dividends.

PRIOR YEAR ADJUSTMENT

An adjustment has been made to gross up turnover and administrative expenses in the prior year by
£3,059,225 due to a mis-posting of accrued and deferred income. An adjustment has also been made to

increase cost of sales and reduce administrative expenses in the prior year by £1,349,907 due to a mis-
posting of expenditure. There is no impact on profit previously reported for the year ended 31 March 2023.

Page 29

VIA EAST MIDLANDS LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

24,

25.

PENSION COMMITMENTS -

The company operates a defined contributions pension scheme. The assets of the scheme are held
separately from those of the company in an independently administered fund. The pension cost charge
represents contributions payable by the company to the fund and amounted to £542,654 (2023:
£416,670). Contributions totalling £76,667 (2023: £60,627) were payable to the fund at the reporting date
and are included in creditors. )

Some employees of the company are members of the Nottinghamshire County Council LGPS, a multi-
employer scheme administered by Nottinghamshire County Council under the regulations governing the
Local Government Pension Scheme, a defined benefit scheme. Triennial actuarial valuations are
performed by a qualified actuary using the “projected unit” method. The last formal valuation was
undertaken at 31 March 2022. :

Contributions

The employers’ contributions to the Local Government Pension Scheme by the Company for the period to.
31 March 2024 were £2,087,919 (2023: £1,971,077). Contributions totalling £207,579 (2023: £217,638)

were payable to the fund at the reporting date and are included in creditors. The employer's contribution

rate was fixed at 17.4% of pensionable pay, and the expected level of employer contributions for the year

ended 31 March 2025 is £2,153,519 (£2,038,664 in 2023/24). .

COMMITMENTS UNDER OPERATING LEASES

At 31 March 2024 the company had future minimum lease payments due under non-cancellable
operating leases for each of the following periods:

2024 2023

£ £

Not later than 1 year . 97,745 103,070
Later than 1 year and not later than 5 years , , 122,655 220,400

220,400 323,470

Page 30

VIA EAST MIDLANDS LIMITED

-NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

26.

27.

RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS .

2024 2023

£ £

Sales :
Nottinghamshire County Council 63,704,174 59,519,640
Arc Property Services Partnership Ltd i 739,742 421,370
Purchases ‘ . : .
Arc Property Services Partnership Ltd 212,672 . 69,464
Nottinghamshire County Council 1,824,961 1,877,576
SCAPE Group Limited : 113,580 116,667
Appian Trading Limited . : - 420
Debtors at year end - :
Arc Property Services Partnership Ltd 39,185 43,083 |
Nottinghamshire County Council : 9,919,191 6,705,540
Creditors at year end
Arc Property-Services Partnership Ltd . 53,778 10,730.

Nottinghamshire County Council . : ‘ §,219,166 2,061,870

Arc Property Services Partnership Ltd is related to Via East Midlands Limited due to them being a joint
venture of Nottinghamshire County Council, resulting in both companies being under common control,
and also having 4 directors in common with Via East Midlands Limited.

SCAPE Group Limited is related to Via East Midlands Limited due to them being a -subsidiary of
Nottinghamshire County Council, resulting in both companies being under common control, and also
having 1 director in common with Via East Midlands Limited. ¢ :

Appian Trading Limited is a company that has 1 director in common with Via East Midlands Limited. -
In addition to the debtor balances above there are provisions against Nottinghamshire County Council

amounting to-£Nil (2023: £8,491) and provisions against Arc Property Services Partnership Ltd
amounting to £Nil (2023: £450). : : :

_ Key Management Personnel are limited to directors, transactions are as disclosed in Note 9.

CONTROLLING PARTY ~

The company's parent is Nottinghamshire County Council (registered office: County Hall, West Bridgford,
Nottingham, NG2 7QP). These financial statements are consolidated into the financial statements of
Nottinghamshire County Council as at 31 March 2024 and these financial statements may be obtained
from Nottinghamshire County Council's website. , .

~

Page 31

