GLP UL|

Wirttile College Limited
Annual
Financial Statements

1023-24

Canpany Numan ieieERee

it

*ADHSRIFU*

Baa 42/12/2024
COMPANIES HOUSE

d
<2
Te 2 |
: oF zz, Le.

res 3 fe
o Sr 2

a
BES! 388% :

°

P =a

, 00
‘

° | a
rane

rs

4
“4


Table of Contents
Writtle College Reference and Administrative Detaits.

College Executive Team.
Finance & Corporate Services
Professional advisors.........
Strategic Report...

Legal Status.

Strategy and Objectives

Mission and Values.
Resources
Human Resources,.
Learner numbers.
Financial Resources

Financial Arrangements.
Accounting Officer......
Financial Review.
Financial Plan...
Treasury Policy & Objectives.
RESEMVES nn. cscssrtesctsnson
Payment to Governors.
Going Concern...
Capital Expenditure
Stakeholders.........
Student Achievements
Principat Risks and Uncertainties
Sustainability...
Carbon emission reporting.
Trade union facility time...
Equality. Diversity and Inclusion.
Gender pay gap reporting
Accessibility Statement...
GOING CONCETA... arene
Events after the Reporting Period...
_ Disclosure of Information to Auditors.
Governance Statement.
Governance code.
Members of the Board.
The Governance Framework,
Appointments to the Board
Board performance...
Audit Committee
Internal Control...
Scope of Responsibility

Page 2 of 42

Risks Faced by the Corporation...
Responsibitities under funding agreements
Statement from the audit committee
Review of Effectiveness.
Statement of Regularity. Propriety and Compliance
Statement of the chair of governors.
Statement of Responsibilities of the Members of the Corporation..
Independent Auditor's Report to Writtle College ......ermsesnenes
Opinion
Basis for opinion...
Conclusions relating to going concern
Other information...
Opinions on other matters proscribed by the Companies Act 2006.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception...
Responsibilities of the Corporation of Writtle College Limited
Auditor's responsibiities for the audit of the financial statement
Use of our report........ eeesereener ine
Reporting Accountant's 5 Assurance Report on Reguiarity.... se see
Respective responsibilities of The Corporation of Writtle College Limited and the
reporting accountant.
Approach...
Conclusion...
Financial Statements...
Statement of Comprehensive income and Expenditure.
Statement of changes in reserves.
Batance Shee!
Statement of cash flows..
Notes to the financial statements...
Statement of Accounting Policies and estimation techniques ..
Notes to the accounts (CONLINUEM) rumen
2, Tuition Fees & education contracts...
3. Funding Body Grants
4, Other income
§. Staff costs...
Emotuments of the Principal and Accounting Officer.
6. Other operating expenses...
7. Trade and other receivables
8. Creditors: Amounts falling due within one year.
9, Related Party Transactions... asst
10. Ultimate parent undertaking ‘and ‘controlling party.

Pago 3 of 42

Writtle College Reference and Administrative
Details

Board of Governors .
A Sparks (appointed February 2024) - Chair
‘+ R Harrison (appointed February 2024) - Vice Chair
+ €-J Murray (appointed February. 2024)
+  S Footring (appointed February 2024)
+ J Swan (appointed May 2024)
+ K Ellis (appointed February 2024)
+ R Watkins (appointed February 2024)
E Wollen (appointed February 2024)
K Bedford-Straw (appointed February 2024)
J Ralfe (appointed February 2024)
G Thomas (appointed February 2024)
L Butler (appointed November 2024)

Clerk

R Leno

College Executive Team
K Ellis - Principal (1 March 2024 to 18 October 2024)
R Harrison ~ Interim Principal (appointed 14 October 2024)

Finance & Corporate Services
Registered Office: Writtle College Limited, Bishop Halt Lane. Chelmsford, CM11SO
Company Number. 15198562

Professional advisors

External auditors: Sumer Auditco Limited, Colchester
Internal auditors: KPMG. Cambridge

Bankers: Barclays Bank PLC, Chelmsford

Page 4 of 42

Strategic Report

The Governing Body presents their annual report together with the financial statements
and the auditor's report for Writtte College Limited for the period 1 March 2024 to 31 July
2024, which includes the strategic report required under the Companies Act 2006. ;

Legal Status

Writtle College was established as a Further Education Corporation on 29 February 2024,
under the Further and Higher Education Act 1992. following the merger of Anglia Ruskin
University (ARU) and Writtle University Cotlege (WUC), As a wholly owned subsidiary
limited by guarantee (Company Number 15198562), Writtle College is also an exempt
charity under Part 3 of the Charities Act 2011

The registered address for Writtle College Limited is Bishop Hall Lane. Chelmsford, CM1
1SQ. The business address is Writtle College. Lordship Road, Chelmsford, CM1 3RR.
Writtle College offers a range of further education and apprenticeship courses. sharing its
campus, teaching spaces. and facitities with ARU Writtle. which is part of ARU who own
and manage all the buildings and land. .

The Board of Governors are also directors under the Companies Act 2006.

The Writtle College Limited articles of association lay out the following as reserved
matters for the approval of the ARU Board:

Writtle College Board periodically review the profite of Colleges activities to ensure they
are within its powers and satisfy itself in monitoring the financial performance of any non-
core activities that they are not being materially subsidised from public funding

Strategy and Objectives

The Writtle College Strategic Plan and KPis witl be devetoped and further refined during
the 24/25 academic year to encompass ARU's vision for the merger which had three
strategic aims:

« Sustain: Achieving financial sustainability through an effective shared services
model. Building a strong financial foundation for the future growth and
development. Maximising resource allocation for teaching. resources, and
facilities at the ARU Writtle Campus.

* Synthesise: Fostering education connections across the merged institution.
Leveraging complementary strengths and expertise to enhance the student
experience and improve outcomes. Creating a more well-rounded education
experience for students through effective synthesis.

« Grow and Develop: Unlocking opportunities for growth and development across
the curriculum through linking with ARU's academic and non-academic offerings.
Empowering staff and students to reach their full potential through greater
progression opportunities. Realising the full potential through strategic linkages
with ARU for mutual growth and development.

ARU Is committed to the long-term sustainability of education and knowledge exchange
in ARU's communities. ARU's goal is to equip individuals and businesses with the skilts,
knowledge. and expertise necessary for growth and prosperity. ARU has committed
significant and ongoing investment which will benefit both FE and HE operations at the
ARU Writtle campus. ,

Writtle College is committed to the provision of high-quality, specialised land-based
education, where students make good progress on their courses and or apprenticeships,

Page 6 of 42

gaining technical and employability skills sought by employers. We continue to build
partnerships with local, regional. and national employers, of all sizes. to best equip
students and our community for personal and career progression and wellbeing.

Mission and Values

Writtle College is committed to designing and delivering an innovative Further Education
& Apprenticeship programme that leverages our expertise. Our commitment is to provide
high quality opportunities to a diverse spectrum of individuals, fostering sustainable
career paths and progression. We aim to meet the evolving skill requirements of partner
businesses and the broader regional economy, while also serving as a core part of the
community and its wellbeing. With a rich 130-year legacy in land-based industries, our
vision is to elevate Writtle College to a centre of excellence. particularly focusing on
smart and sustainable farming, food security. animal care, and planetary health. By
building on our heritage. we strive to be a catalyst for positive change. ensuring our
learners are well-equipped for success in these fields, actively contributing to the welfare
and growth of our community.

As a part of ARU, Writtle College shares it values with those of the wider university,
advancing the shared goals of widening participation, promoting skills development. and
‘supporting economic growth. We are driven by ambition to innovate boldly, foster
community. uphold integrity, and take responsibility for positive impact. ensuring all our
students reach their full potential.

The ARU vision and values resonate with the ambition for the College to deliver inclusive.
high quality learning that supports our learners to progress in life and work, whilst ina
safe and supportive environment. We also aim to support our communities, business, and
stakeholder partners to contribute more effectively to the economy and wider society:
and support their ongoing health and wellbeing.

Page 6 of 42

Resources

Human Resources
During the period the College employed 44 Full Time Equivalent teaching staff. Please
see page 40 for a breakdown of higher paid staff by salary band.

‘

Learner numbers

In the period 1 March 2024 to 31 July 2024 the College received income of £2.322,226 in
Education and Skills Funding Agency funding for 16-19 and adult education. The College
enrolled 600 16-19 funded students. Across all provisions the College enrolled 1049
funded students and 70 non-funded students

Funded students are made up of:

> 16-19 students 600

> Adult students 163

> AdultLearnerLoan 43

> Apprentices 243
Financial Resources
Assets

Writtle College operates from the ARU Writtle estate. Ail buildings and land are owned
and maintained by ARU.

Public benefit

Writtle Cotlege, an exempt charity under Part 3 of the Charities Act 2011, is regulated by
the Secretary of State for Education. Details of the Governors are provided within this
annual report. The Governors are also Trustees for the purposes of the Act.

In developing the strategic plan. the Governing Body will follow the Charity Commission's
guidance on public benefit. especially regarding the advancement of education. This
guidance requires charities to ctearly demonstrate that their aims serve the public benefit.
Writtle College fulfils its mission by delivering identifiable public benefits through the
advancement of education’

1. Enhanced Learning Opportunities: The College provides a range of
educational programmes designed to meet the diverse needs of its learners,
fostering personal and professional growth.

2, Widening Participation and Tackling Social Exclusion: The College is
committed to widening participation by providing access to education for
underrepresénted groups. This includes initiatives ainved at tackling social
exclusion and ensuring that all individuals can progress to higher education.

3. Excellent Student Progression into Employment: Writtle College has good
progression rates into employment. The College's programs are designed to
equip students with the skills and knowledge needed to succeed in their
chosen careers, ensuring they are well-prepared for the job market.
hites//www arwac.uk/writlle-college/careers-support

4, Strong Student Support Processes and Systems: The College has robust
support systenis in place to assist students throughout their academic journey.
This includes tearning support, safeguarding and mental health service and
career advice, all aimed at helping students achleve their full potential.

Page 7 of 42

5, Good Links with Employers, industry, and Commerce: Writtle College
maintains strong connections with employers. industry. and commerce. These
partnerships provide students with valuable opportunities for internships, work
placements, and networking, enhancing their emptoyability and career
prospects,

These efforts collectively ensure that Writtle College remains committed to its charitable
objectives and continues to make a positive impact in the community it serves.

Financial Arrangements

The shared service model for Writtle College Is costed based on the intra-group shared
services agreement signed at the point of merger. This agreement outlines the allocation
of costs for services. including financial services, provided by ARU to Writtle College. The
costs are determined based on the proportionate use of services, ensuring that Writtle
College pays a fair share for the services received. This model ensures that Writtle
College benefits from the expertise and resources of ARU while maintaining financial
accountability arid transparency.

Accounting Officer :

The Principal is the accounting officer and has a personal responsibltity to Parliament and

the Education and Skitls Funding Agency (ESFA} for the financial resources of the college.
This includes ensuring compliance with the terms of the Financial Memorandum between
the college and the ESFA. The accounting officer is responsible for:

¢ Ensuring the college's financial resources are managed effectively and efficiently.

« Providing clear assurances to the Board and the ESFA that the college complies
with all financial regulations and requirements.

“e Overseeing the preparation and submission of financial statements and reports.
“ensuring they are accurate and comply with the College Accounts Direction.

« Ensuring the college adheres to the Department for Education's (DfE’s) financial
governance, management, and control requirements as outlined in the Cotlege
Financial Handbook.

« The accounting officer must also ensure that the college's financial activities align
with the principles of Managing Public Money, which includes maintaining
propriety, regularity, and value for money in the use of public funds.

The College Board approved intra-group shared services agreement-outlines how
financial services are provided to Writtle College by the University, including the role of .
the ARU Director of Finance operating under the shared service model. ensuring that the
Principat can fulfil their responsibilities effectively.

Financial Review

The colleges made a surplus of £142,926 in 2023-4, The college's operating performance
for the period was as forecast.

The coltege received 81% of its total income for 2023-4 as grants from funding bodies.
with 100% coming from the Education and Skills Funding Agency for 16-19 provision.

At the balance sheet date, the group held net current assets and net assets of £142,926,
All fixed assets used in delivering the company’s activities are held by the parent entity.
Anglia Ruskin University and Writtle College Ltd is charged for their usage via the shared
services model. .

At £1.440.507 the net cash flow from operating activities was reasonably strong,

Page 8 of 42

The cash balance at the end of the period was £1,440,507 and reserves were £142,926.

Financial Plan

The College governors approved a financial plan in July 2024 which commits us to
achieving the objectives agreed with the Education and Skills Funding Agency (ESFA) at
the point of merger.

Treasury Policy & Objectives

The College supported by shared services from ARU has treasury management
arrangements in place to manage cash flows. banking arrangements and the risks
associated with those activities. The ARU Finance, Employment & General Purposes
Committee is responsible for approving a treasury management policy statement setting
out a strategy and policies for cash management. long term investments and borrowings.
They also have a responsibility to ensure implementation, monitoring and review of such
policies.

Reserves

ARU has no formal Reserves Policy but recognises the importance of reserves in the
financial stability of any organisation and ensures that there are adequate reserves to
support the college's core activities.

Payment to Governors

The remuneration of the Principal who is an ex officio member of the Board is set out in
the financial statements. The other Governors do not receive any remuneration for
carrying out their Board roles but are reimbursed for reasonable travel and other out of
pocket expenses on request. ,

Due to the nature of the composition of the Board of Governors (some being drawn from
local public and private sector organisations) it is inevitable that transactions may take
place with organisations in which a member of the Board of Governors may have an
interest. All transactions involving organisations in which a member of the Board of
Governors may have an interest are conducted at arm's length.

Governors are required to declare all outside business interests, and these are recorded
on a register of interests which is open to public inspection. When an item arises in which
a Governor has an interest it must be declared, and the Governor concerned may not take
part in that debate or any related decisions.

Going Concern

. The Governors assess whether the use of going concern is appropriate ie. whether there
are any material uncertainties related to events or conditions that may cast significant
doubt on the ability of Writtle College to continue as a going concern. The Governors
make this assessment in respect of a period of one year from the date of approval of the
financial statements. :
Please refer to the external auditors report and income and expenditure provided within
the financial statements of this document.

Capital Expenditure

Writtle College received grant funding from the ESFA as foltows:
Funding to T Levels. £826,800

Page 8 of 42

At 3ist July 2024. we held £826,800 as a deferred capital grant.

Stakeholders

We have diverse external stakeholders including Civic. Community, Employer and
Educational partners. The ARU Writtle Stakeholder Group has been established and met
for the first time in October 2024.

Student Achievements

At Writtle College: young people thrive in a calm and inclusive environment. forming
strong bonds with their teachers. This supportive atmosphere leads to high retention and
achievement rates. with over 90% of students passing their courses and a consistent
three-year trend of increasing qualification achievements. The focus for 2024-25 is to
further boost target and high-grade achievements.

Students benefit from experienced and caring teachers who help them develop essential
skills, including English and Maths, preparing them well for further study and
employment. The flexible curriculum offers practical and technical qualifications in areas
like equine. sport, and animal care. alongside essential Maths and English.

Well-resourced environments such as thie Animal Unit, Farm, and Equine Yard enhance
learning. and significant work experience placements further enrich the educational
experience. Attendance is generally good, though English and Maths attendance needs
improvement. A broad range of activities helps students develop personal, social, and
independent skills, leading to high progression rates and a loyal alumni network

Nearly 200 adults studied at Writtle College last year. benefiting from well-planned,
industry-standard resources. Effective teaching helps adults progress and build skills.
though improving high-grade achievements is a focus for 2024-25. Support for English
and Maths skills is strong, and tutorials are accessible to fit various study modes. Over
90% of adults successfully move to higher education or employment.

Writtle College has strong employer partnerships, including with CNH Industrial.
providing apprenticeships that address industry skills shortages. Experienced trainers and
state-of-the-art facilities ensure apprentices develop current skills. Employers value the
training. evidenced by repeat business and additional tearning opportunities.

Apprentices achieve high distinction rates and first-time pass rates at EPA, with overall
achievement rates improving from 60% to 64% in 2023-24. Veterinary nurse and
horticulture standards saw significant improvements. Investments in diagnostic tools for
English and Maths are expected to enhance progress tracking.

Apprentices receive comprehensive heatth and safety training, career guidance, and
access to tailored tutorials. They develop professional attitudes and become valued team
members, contributing to high progression rates and employer satisfaction.

In 2023-24, 14 High Needs Funded learners were supported, with high retention and
achievement rates. Inclusive environments and structured work experience build
confidence and prepare learners for positive destinations. Specialist support and robust

Page 10 of 42

progress tracking ensure learners achieve their qualifications. though increasing high-
grade achievements remains a goal.

Principal Risks and Uncertainties

The main risk factors affecting the College are outlined below along with the action taken
to mitigate them. Not all the factors are within the college's control. Other factors besides
those listed below may also adversely affect the College.

1

Failure to comply with OFSTED requirements: This risk involves the potential
failure to meet OFSTED standards. negatively impacting the institution's
reputation, student enrolment. and financial stability. Writtle College Limited
(WCL). formerly Writtle University College, was inspected in October 2023 prior
to the merger with ARU. At that time, inspectors judged the overall effectiveness
of the provision to require improvement. A monitoring visit in June 2024
demonstrated reasonable progress against the required actions and a full re-
inspection is expected in the 24/25 academic year. Mitigations include
establishing strong education governance arrangements including the Academic
Quality Committee which oversees the active management of a Post Inspection
Action Plan (PIAP). Writtle College also engage proactively with OFSTED and
implement corrective measures promptly in response to any negative feedback.
Failure to prevent a cyber security breach: This risk highlights the threat of
cyber-attacks, such as phishing and denial of service attempts. which could
disrupt service delivery. cause data loss, and attract adverse media attention.
Writtle College benefits from the cyber security arrangements of ARU with
significant investment in the IT infrastructure since merger. This includes investing
in firewall technologies, rotling out multi-factor authentication (MFA), mandatory
training and conducting regular phishing awareness exercises, and implementing
new data backup functionalities.

Inability to recruit and retain suitably qualified FE academic and/or senior
staff: This risk addresses the challenges in attracting and retaining qualified staff.
Mitigations include regular communication and engagement opportunities for
Staff. introduction of retention measures, and implementation of a detailed staff
induction program to support new employees.

Failure to meet Safeguarding responsibilities and to effectively manage
Student Wellbeing: This risk pertains to the failure to meet safeguarding
requirements and adequately support student wellbeing, which could lead to
serious incidents and regulatory scrutiny. Mitigations include establishing and
maintaining robust safeguarding governance arrangements, appointment of an
experienced designated safeguarding lead and Board safeguarding champion: as
well as pro-active annual review of the Safeguarding and Prevent Policy and
establishing links to external support mechanisms.

Failure to comply with ESFA requirements: This risk involves non-compliance
with ESFA standards, which could result in funding loss and reputational damage.
Mitigations include appointment of experienced and expert staff, engaging
proactively with ESFA, monitoring ongoing compliance through self-assessments
and external audits, and implementing corrective measures in response to
regulatory feedback.

Page 11 of 42

Sustainability

Environmental responsibitity is a core value expressed in the ARU corporate strategy
‘Designing Our Future’. Leadership for this agenda is provided by the Sustainability
Strategy Group. which leads the delivery of the ambitious Sustainability Strategy for the
period up to 2026 which outlines the measures to be taken in response to ARU's
declaration of a climate and ecological emergency in September 2019. Writtle College as
a wholly owned subsidiary is covered by this strategy.

ARU's sustainability commitment. compliance and performance continue to be verified
through certification to the ISO 14001 international environmental management standard.
The certification is independently audited every year and our 2024 audit was completed
in June with no non-compliances and a very high level of assurance. Ongoing certification
to ISO 14001 is dependent on our ability to demonstrate continual improvement in our
sustainability performance. Some key initiatives which evidenced this during 2023-24
include the following

.

In the 2024 Times Higher Education (THE) Impact Ranking that assess universities
against the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) we ranked 5!"
among UK universities for SDG 3: Good Health and Wellbeing,

We launched an Education for Sustainability toolkit which provides practical
advice, exemplars and resources for teaching staff from across ARU.

We piloted the use of the Public Health Report Card across 3 degree programmes
in our Faculty of Health, Medicine and Social Care.

The Sustainable Futures research theme has held several high-profile events
including the East of England Net Zero conference with over 200 delegates hosted
on the Cambridge campus.

A Sustainable Futures postdoctoral research fellow has been recruited with a remit
to increase our activities with regional partners. most notably the Oxford-
Cambridge pan regional partnership. ©

Our REFIT carbon reduction programme was publicised by TEC to the higher
education sector as an example of best practice. Phase 3 was approved funding of
£990k to install cooling optimisation and LED lighting in 10 of our buildings.

Our catering service achieved the Soil Association's Food for Life Served Here
Bronze certification,

We commenced a 9-month trial with a Travel Management Company in February
to enable monitoring and implementation of our Travel Policy. This supports our
carbon reduction goals by requiring staff to prioritise online meetings and low
carbon travel between campuses. and to use surface transport (e.g. rail) over air
transport for journeys less than 750 miles.

Our suppliers are now required to provide carbon information to the Net Zero
Carbon Supplier Tool, which we are developing with Nottingham Trent University
and NETpositive Futures. This not only provides us with more accurate supply
chain carbon emissions data but also proactively targets and influences our
suppliers to reduce their own carbon emissions,

Our ARU green sustainability and wellbeing rewards programme promotes behaviour
change to staff and students in all faculties and services. During the period over 55,000
sustainable actions were recorded in ARU green. an increase of 50% versus 2022/23.
saving over 114 tonnes of carbon dioxide, over 21,000 disposable cups and bottles and
atmost 9 tonnes of waste. The International Office and ARU London were the winning

Page 12 of 42

teams each receiving a £100 donation to a charity of their choice. selecting Cool Earth
and Cancer Research respectively,

Carbon emission reporting

Please refer to the data available in the ARU Group Annual Report & Accounts available
on the ARU website: httos://www aruac uk/about-1s/governance/strategy-and-
leadership/annual-ropert-and-accounts. Carbon emissions data is calculated using the

methodology published in the international Greenhouse Gas Protocol. The units are
tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent, which includes carbon dioxide and other .
greenhouse gases converted to the equivalent amount of carbon dioxide with the same
global warming impact. Further explanation of how ARU carbon emissions are calculated
and the associated terminology can be viewed at wwwaruac.uk/about-

= rgy-carbon-and-wat

Trade union facility time

The Trade Union (Facility Time Publication Requirements) Regulations 2017 require the
College to publish information on facility time arrangements for trade union officials.
Writtle College benefits from the Trade Union arrangements of ARU. further details are
available in the ARU Group Annual Report & Accounts available on the ARU website:

and-accounts. The reporting period runs 1 April to 31 March.

Page 13 of 42

Equality, Diversity and Inclusion

ARU is committed to providing an environment that values diversity and promotes
equality and inclusion. As a learning Institution. we seek to maximise the potential of att
our staff and students, to be responsive to new ideas, and to equip our students for life in
a multicultural and diverse society. It's our aim to provide a supportive environment in
which to work and study, where we'll treat each other with dignity and respect.

The ARU ‘Valuing Diversity and Promoting Equality Statement’ and Its implementation
also apply to Writtle College as a wholly owned subsidiary. A full statement review is in
progress and will be published following Board ratification by the end of the 2024
calendar year. The following content will be included in that update but is shared below
for clarity and to demonstrate commitments made in respect of further education
regutatory requirements .

1. The Writtle College Board of Governors complies with FE regulatory
requirements and will be appointing a governor with a particular interest in
disabled students and SEND provision. .

2, The College fulfils its statutory obligations under current and subsequent
legislation and regulations, including Safeguarding and Prevent duties and those
under the Equality Act 2010 {including the Public Sector Equality Duty).

3. Young people with Education Health & Care (EHC) Plans are welcomed to the
College and duties under the Children and Families Act 2014 relating to young
people with Special Educational Needs and Disabilities (SEND) are fulfilled,
including providing suitable support. cooperating with local authorities. and
providing independent careers advice to prepare young people for adulthood
and employment.

ARU's ‘Valuing Diversity and Promoting Equality Statement’ is published to the ARU
website: hilps //www aru ac.uk/about-us/cquality-diversity-and-inclusion

Gender pay gap reporting

The Equality Act 2010 (Specific Duties and Public Authorities) Regulations 2017 (the
Regulations) apply to all public sector employers listed in Schedule 2 of the Regulations
that have 250 or more employees. This includes English FE colleges. Writtle Cotlege has
fewer than 250 employces and as such, gender pay gap reporting is not a mandatory
requirement, however there will be a voluntary disclosure made from the 2024/25
financial year,

Accessibility Statement
The College as part of ARU seeks to achieve the objectives set down in the Equality Act
2010. The ARU Accessibility Statement can be read on the ARU website:
+ The admissions policy for all students is described on the website
https:/7/www aruac uk/study/coliege-courses/how-to-apply. Appeals against a
decision not to offer a place are dealt with under the complaints policy.
Wi wei i icies- res- =
regulations
The Coliege benefits from the ARU Disability support service who provides
information. advice and arranges support where necessary for students with
disabilities,

Page 14 of 42

There is a continuing programme of staff devetopment to ensure the provision of
a high level of appropriate support for students who have learning difficulties
and/or disabilities. . .

A range of assistive technology is available to all students through the Learning
Support team,

Safeguarding, counselling and wellbeing services are available to all students and
information is provided at induction as well as published to the student intranet.

Going Concern

After making appropriate enquiries, the corporation considers that the college has
adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For
this reason. it continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial
statements.

Events after the Reporting Period

There were no events after the reporting period which need to be disclosed.

- Disclosure of Information to Auditors
The members who held office at the date of approval of this report confirm that, to the
best of their knowledge, there is no relevant audit information which has not been made
available to the auditors. Each member has taken all necessary steps to ensure that they
are aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the College's auditors
are aware of that information.

Approved by order of the members of Writtle College on 20 November 2024 and signed
on its behalf by-

sige

A Sparks
Chair

Page 15 of 42

Governance Statement

The following statement is provided to enable readers of the annual report and accounts
of the College to obtain a better understanding of its governance and legal structure. This
statement covers the period from 1 March 2024 (when Writtle College was created as a
subsidiary of Anglia Ruskin University (ARU)) and up to the date of approval of the annual
report and financial statements on 20 November 2024.

Governance code

The College endeavours to conduct its business:

1

in accordance with the seven principles identified by the Nolan Committee on
Standards in Public Life (selflessness, integrity, objectivity. accountability,
openness, honesty, and leadership) . :

in full accordance with the Association of Colleges (AoC) Code of Good ©
Governance for 2023/24. The Governing Body recognises that, as a body
entrusted with both public and private funds, it has a particular duty to always
observe the highest standards of corporate governance. The Board formally
adopted the Code of Good Governance for English Colleges issued by the
Association of Colleges in 2015, at its first meeting in March 2024 and its
commitment to this is included within the Board's Terms of Reference.

Page 16 of 42

The Board

Members of the Board.
The members who served on the Board during the period and up to the date of signature
of this report were as listed in the table below. The attendance data is for the academic

period 2023-4 (three meetings).
Date of Committee | Board
appointment Attendance

Sparks, A February 3%,
2024
Vice Chair 100%

Harrison, R

Board and
Chair
Academic

Date of
resignation

independent
Governor
Independent
Governor,
resigned
October
2024 &

February
2024

Watkins, R

Murray. E-J

Academic

Quality
Audit &

Complian :
Audit &
Compliance

Audit &
Compliance

November Audit &
2024 Compliance

Andy Sparks was the Board Chair & Rosemary Leno served as Clerk to the Governors
from 29 February 2024.

Page 17 of 42

The Governance Framework

It is the Board's responsibility to bring independent judgement to bear on issues of
strategy. performance, resources. and standards of conduct. The Board is provided with
regular and timely information on the overall financial performance of the College
together with other information such as performance against funding targets, proposed
capital expenditure, quality matters and personnel-related matters such as health and
safety and safeguarding.

The Board conducts its business through two committees. Each committee has terms of
reference, which have been approved by the committee and the Board. These
committees are Audit & Compliance Committee and Academic Quality Committee. Full
minutes of all meetings. except those deemed to be confidential, are available from the
Clerk at the College's registered address and are published on the web page.
Appointment of Key Management Personnel and Members of the Writtle College Board
are put forward to the ARU Nominations Committee for recommendation to the Writtle
College Board who ratify the nomination. The ARU Nominations Committee is made up of
the Chairman and Deputy Chairman of the ARU Board, three Governors and the SU
President.

The Clerk maintains a register of financial and personal interests of the governors. The
register is available for inspection at the above address. All governors are able to take
independent professional advice in furtherance of their duties at the College's expense
-and have access to the Clerk to the Board, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring
that all applicable procedures and regulations are complied with.

Formal agendas, papers and reports are supplied to governors in a timely manner. prior
to Board meetings. Briefings are provided on an ad hoc basis. The Board has a strong and
Independent non-executive element, and benefits from the wider support of the
executive of ARU. There is a clear division of responsibility in that the roles of the Chair
and Accounting Officer are separate.

Appointments to the Board

Any new governor appointments to the Board are a matter for the approval of the Board
as a whole, and also subject to recommendation from the ARU Nominations Committee.
The College Board is responsible for ensuring that appropriate induction and training is
provided as required. Members of the Board are appointed for a term of office not
exceeding three years,

- Board performance
The Board carried out a self-assessment of its own performance for the period ended 31
July 2024 by questionnaire and graded itself as good. The Governing Body is committed
to development and 2 days per annum are set aside for Governor development.
Governors are offered opportunities for internal and external training and the Cterk
maintains a record of all governor training and development. :
The Board noted that the DfE had confirmed that Writtle College was exempt from the
July 2024 deadline for an external governance review and had agreed to the new Board
operating for a year and then undertaking this review in their second year of operation
(and every 3 years after that). The Governing Bady has agreed the scope for this external
review and is in the process of commissioning this for summer 2025,

Page 18 of 42

Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprises five members of the Board (excluding the Accounting
Officer and Chair). The Committee operates in accordance with written terms of reference
approved by the Board. The Audit Committee meets on a termly basis and provides a
forum for reporting by the College's internat auditors. and external auditors, who have
access to the Committee for independent discussion without the presence of College
management. The Committee also receives and considers reports from the main FE
funding bodies as they affect the College's business.
The College's internal auditors review the systems of internat control, risk management
controts and governance processes in accordance with an agreed plan of input and
report their findings to management and the Audit & Compliance Committee.
Management is responsible for the implementation of agreed audit recommendations
and internat audit undertakes periodic follow-up.reviews to ensure such
recommendations have been implemented. The Audit & Compliance Committee also
advises the Board and the ARU Audit Committee and Board on the appointment of
internal auditors, and external auditors.
Due to Writtle College only being created on 29 February 2024, the Audit & Compliance
Committee met only once in the period to 31 July 2024, although the committee met
again in September and November 2024 (up to when the accounts were signed) and the
committee would normally meet four times a year. The members of the committee and
‘their attendance until 31 July 2024 records are shown below:

[status tenance
100%

Jonathan Swan (Chair) Co-opted Governor

James Rolfe ARU Member Governor 100%

Gill Thomas ARU & Lead Safeguarding Governor 100%

Emma-Jane Murray Independent Governor

Kim Bedford Straw Writtle College Staff Governor por

Page 19 of 42

Internal Control
Scope of Responsibility

The Board is satisfied that Writtle College has adequate resources to continue in

- operation for the foreseeable future: for this reason, the going concern basis continues to
be adopted in the preparation of financial statements. It acknowledges its responsibility
for ensuring that an effective system of internal control is maintained and operated. Key
arrangements include:

1

10.

As the governing body of Writtke College, the Board has responsibility for
maintaining a sound system of internal control that supports the achievement of
policies, aims and objectives, while safeguarding the public and other funds and
assets for which we are responsible, in accordance with the responsibilities
assigned to the governing body in the articles of association and the ESFA
conditions of funding for further education institutions.

The system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the
risk of failure to achieve policies, aims and objectives: it can therefore only
provide reasonable and not absolute assurance of effectiveness.

The syStem of internal control is based on an on-going process designed to
identify the principal risks to the achievement of policies, aims and objectives, to
evaluate the nature and extent of those risks and to manage them efficiently.
effectively. and economically. This process has been in place for the period
ended 31 July 2024 and up to the date of approval of the financial statements and.
accords with the ESFA guidance.

As the governing body. the Board has responsibility for reviewing the
effectiveness of the system of internal control, The following processes have
been established:

The Board meets at least 4 times a year to consider the plans and: strategic
direction of the institution which are also considered at away day events each
academic year.

The Board has requested that the Audit & Compliance Committee has oversight
of the risk management programme and receives regular reports from the Chair
of the Audit & Compliance Committee concerning internal control, and
additionally regular reports from managers on the steps being taken to manage
risks in their areas of responsibility, including progress.

Writtle College has adopted robust risk management practices which mirror
those already established at ARU, identifying potential risks. and implementing
mitigation strategies. A robust risk prioritisation methodology based on risk
tanking has been established.

A Writtle College risk register is maintained which includes the most significant
strategic, operational, compliance and financial risks identified, An effective risk
escalation framework has been established.

The Principal. in consultation with the ARU Secretary's Office. reviews and
updates the Writtle College Risk Register and submits it to each meeting of the
Writtle College Audit and Compliance Committee.

Additionally, the Risk Register is managed and reported under ARU's Risk
Management Policy with submissions to ARU's Head of Risk and Insurance four
times a year. The risks from all Faculty, Professional Services, and Subsidiary risk
registers are reviewed. with recommendations for inclusion where appropriate to

Page 20 of 42

the University Strategic Risk Register. This Risk Register, along with selected
subsidiary Risk Registers, are submitted to ARU's Audit, Risk and Compliance
Committee in January, May, and September each year.

11. Training is delivered to ensure that appropriate staff receive adequate training in
tisk management techniques.

12. The work of internal audit is informed by an analysis of the rigks to which the ARU'
Group including Writtle College is exposed, and annual internal audit plans are
based on this analysis. The Board endorses the analysis of risks and the internal
audit plans on the recommendations of the Audit & Compliance Committee.

13.. The Audit & Compliance Committee receives regular reports from the Internal
Audit Service, which include internal audit's independent opinion on the
adequacy and effectiveness of the institution's system of internal control.
together with recommendations for improvement.

14. Risk management has been fully incorporated into the strategic planning and
decision making of Writtle College. The Head of Risk and Insurance will review
the Writtle College Risk Register ahead of the annual strategic planning exercise.

15. During the period 1 March 2024 to 31 July 2024 no significant internal control
weaknesses or failures were identified.

Risks Faced by the Corporation

The College has a robust risk management process in place. Risks are reviewed regularly
by Senior Management and reported to the Board. Audit & Compliance Committee and
Academic Quality Committee for risks specific to teaching and learning, The key risks
facing the College are identified on page 11

Responsibilities under funding agreements

The Department for Education and Education and Skills Funding Agency introduced new
controls for the College on 29 November 2022. the day that the Office for National
Statistics reclassified colleges as public sector organisations in the national accounts. The
ESFA chief executive communicated these changes to all college accounting officers and
explained plans to introduce a college financial handbook in 2024 which is now in place
The College has developed its policies, procedures and approval processes in tine with
these new requirements to ensure there are systems in place to identify and handle any
transactions for which DfE approval is required.

Statement from the audit committee

The Audit & Compliance Committee has advised the Board that Writtle College has an
effective framework for governance and risk management in place. In the period 1 March
to 31 July 2024 there were no specific internal audits focused on the specific areas of
work undertaken by the Audit & Compliance Committee in 2023/4. Going forward all
internal audit reports are shared with the committee and indeed specific Further
Education related audits are planned in the 2024/5 academic year. The Chair of the
Writtle Cotlege Audit Committee meets regularly with the Chair of the ARU Audit Risk &
Compliance Committec to ensure effective two-way information sharing and oversight of
matters affecting the College and the ARU Group more widely. As part of this mechanism
the internal audit plan is considered fully by both Committees and there is a standing
agenda item to update the Writtle College Audit & Compliance Committee on liaison
between the two

Page 21 of 42

Review of Effectiveness
As Accounting Officer, the Principal has responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness of
the system of internal control. Their review of the effectiveness of the system of internal
control is informed by: _
+ the work of the internal auditors
+ the work of the senior managers within the College who have responsibility for
the development and maintenance of the internal control framework
comments made by the College's financial statements auditors, the reporting
accountant for regularity assurance, the appointed funding auditors in their
management letters and other reports.

Based on the advice of the Audit & Compliance Committee and the Accounting Officer,
Writtle College is of the opinion that the College has an adequate and effective
framework for governance, risk management and control. and has fulfitled its statutory
responsibility for ‘the effective and efficient use of resources, the solvency of the institution
and thé body and the safeguarding of their assets’.

Approved by order of the members of the Writtle College Board on 20 November 2024
and signed on:its.pehalf by: : .

R Harrison
Accounting Officer

Page 22 of 42

Statement of Regularity, Propriety and
Compliance

As accounting officer | confirm that the corporation has had due regard to the framework
of authorities governing regularity, priority and compliance. and the requirements of the
college's accountability agreement. funding agreements and contracts with ESFA and
DFE, and has considered its responsibility to notify ESFA of material irregularity,
impropriety and non-compliance with those authorities and terms and conditions of
funding.

t confirm on behalf of the corporation that after due enquiry, and to the best of my
knowledge. | am able to identify any material irregular or improper use of funds by the
corporation, or material non-compliance with the framework of authorities and the terms
and conditions of funding under the college's accountability agreement. funding
agreements and contracts with ESFA and Df€. or any other public funder. This includes
the elements outlined in the “Dear accounting officer* letter of 29 November 2022 and
ESFA's bite size guides.

\ confirm that no instances of material irregularity, impropriety, funding non-compliance.
or non-compliance with the framework of authorities have been discovered to date. If any
instances are identified after the date of this statement, these will be notified to ESFA.

(sighed! Marnie .

Ruth Harrisson, Acting Principal
Accounting officer
20 November 2024

Statement of the chair of governors

On behalf of the corporation, | confirm that the accounting officer has discussed their
statement of regularity, propriety and compliance with the board and that | am content
that it is materially rate.

[Signed]

Andy Sparks, Chair of governors
20 November 2024

Page 23 of 42

Statement of Responsibilities of the Members of
the Corporation

The members of the corporation are required to present audited financial statements for
each financial year,

Within the terms and. conditions of the college's accountability agreement, funding
agreements and contracts with ESFA and Df€. the corporation is required to prepare
financial statements which give a true and fair view of the financial performance and
position of the corporation for the relevant period. Corporations must also prepare a
strategic report which includes an operating and financial review for the year. The bases
for the preparation of the financial statements and strategic report are the Statement of
Recommended Practice - Accounting for Further and Higher Education, ESFA's College
Accounts Direction and the UK's Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.

In preparing the financial statements. the corporation is required to:

select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently

make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent

state whether appticable UK accounting standards have been followed. subject

to any material departures disclosed and expiained in the financial statements
assess whether the corporation is a going concern, noting the key supporting
assumptions, qualifications or mitigating actions, as appropriate (which must be
consistent with other disclosures in the accounts and auditor's report) and

prepare financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate
to assume that the corporation will continue in operation. .

The corporation is also required to prepare a strategic report. in accordance with
paragraphs 3.23 to 3.27 of the FE and HE SORP, that describes what it is trying to do
and how it is going about it, including information about the legal and administrative
status of the corporation.

The corporation is responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose,
with reasonable accuracy at any time. the financial position of the corporation and which
enable It to ensure that the financial statements are prepared in accordance with relevant
legislation including the Further and Higher Education Act 1992. Companies Act 2006.
Charities Act 201, and relevant accounting standards. It is responsible for taking steps
that are reasonably open to it to safeguard its assets and to prevent and detect fraud and
other irregularities.

The corporation is responsible for the maintenance and integrity of its website: the

work carried out by auditors does not invoive consideration of these matters and.
accordingly, auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to
the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website. Legislation in
the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements
may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.

Members of the corporation are responsible for ensuring that expenditure and income are

Page 24 of 42

applied for the purposes intended and that the financial transactions conform to the
authorities that govern them. In addition, they are responsible for ensuring that funds
from ESFA. Df€, and any other public funds, are used only in accordance withthe
accountability agreement, funding agreements and contracts and any other conditions.
that may be prescribed From time to time by ESFA, or any other public funder. including
that any transactions entered into by the corporation are within the delegated authorities
set out in the ‘Dear accounting officer” letter of 29 November 2022 and ESFA's bite size
guides, Members of the corporation must ensure that there are appropriate financial and
management controls in place to safeguard public and other funds and ensure they are
used properly. In addition, members of the corporation are responsible for securing
economic, efficient and effective management of the corporation's resources and
expenditure so that the benefits that should be derived from the application of public
funds from ESFA, DfE and other public bodies are not put at risk.

Approved by order of the members of the corporation on 20 November 2024 and signed
on its behalf

by:

(sighed)

Andy Sparks
Chair of governors

Page 25 of 42

independent Auditor's Report to Writtle College

Opinion

We have audited the financial statements of Writtle College Limited (the ‘College’ for the
period ended 31 July 2024, which comprise the Statement of Comprehensive Income, the
Statement of Changes in Reserves, the Balance Sheet. the Statement of Cash Flows and
notes to the financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting poticies.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is
applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including the Statement
of Recommended Practice: Accounting for Further and Higher Education 2019 (the 2019
FE HE SORP). the College Accounts Direction for 2023.to 2024 and in accordance with
Financial Reporting Standard 102 ‘The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK
and Republic of Ireland’ (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).

In our opinion the financial statements:

* give a true and fair view of the state of the College's affairs as at 31 July 2024 and
of its surplus of income over expenditure for the period then ended:

* have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally
Accepted Accounting Practice: and with the 2019 Statement of Recommended
Practice - Accounting for Further and Higher Education

« Have been prepared in accordance with the requirement of Companies Act 2006.

Basis for opinion

We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK)
(ISAs (UK) and applicable law. Our responsibilities under those standards are further
described in the Auditor's responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section
of our report. We are independent of the College in accordance with the ethical
requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the United .
Kingdom. including the Financial Reporting Council's Ethicat Standard and we have
fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. We
believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide
a basis for our opinion.

Conclusions relating to going concern

In auditing the financial statements. we have concluded that the Corporation's use of the
going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is
appropriate.

Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified any material uncertainties
relating to events or conditions that. individually or collectively. may cast significant doubt
on the College's abitity to continue as a going concern for a period of at least twelve
months from when the financial statements are authorised for issue, Our responsibilities
and the responsibilities of the Corporation with respect to going concern are described in
the relevant sections of this report.

Other information
The Corporation are responsible for the other information contained within the Annuat

Report. The.other information comprises the information included in the Annual Report

Page 26 of 42

and Financial Statements other than the financial statements and our Auditor's Report
thereon. Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information
and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report. we do not express any
form of assurance conclusion thereon.

In connection with our audit of the financial statements. our responsibility is to read the
other information and, in doing so. consider whether the other information is materially
inconsistent with the financial statements, or our knowledge obtained in the course of the
audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If we identify such material
inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine
whether this gives rise to a material misstatement in the financial statements themselves.
If. based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material
misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.

We have nothing to report in this regard,

Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act
2006

In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit:

* the information given in report. which includes the Strategic report and the
Directors’ report, for the period for which the financial statements are prepared is
consistent with the financial statements; and

« the Strategic report and the Directors’ report have! been prepared in accordance
with applicable legal requirements.

Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the
Companies Act and Post 16 Audit Code of Practice issued by the Education and Skills
Funding Agency requires us to report to you if, in our opinion:

+ proper accounting records have not been kept: or
+ the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and retums;
or
+ all the information and explanations required for the audit were not received: or
conclusions relating to appropriateness of the use of the going concern basis of
accounting and disclosures of material uncertainties. subject to the requirements of ISA
570 Going Concern, and whether the auditor has concluded that there is a material
misstatement in other information. subject to the requirements of ISA 720 The Auditor's
Responsibilities Relating to Other Information.

Responsibilities of the Corporation of Writtle College Limited

As explained more fully in the Statement of Corporation's Responsibilities set out on page

24, the Corporation are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for

being satisfled that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the

Corporation determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that
- are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.

Page 27 of 42

in preparing the financial statements, the Corporation are responsible for assessing the
College's ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related
to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting untess the Corporation
either intend to liquidate the College or to cease operations, or have no realistic
alternative but to do so.

Auditor's responsibilities for the audit of the financial

statements

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error,
and to issue an Auditor's Report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high
level of assurance but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs
(UK) will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise
from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they
could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the
basis of these financial statements. :

Irregularities, including fraud, are instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations,
We design procedures in line with our responsibilities, outlined above, to detect material
misstatements in respect of irregularities. including fraud, The extent to which our
procedures are capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud Is detailed below:

We identified areas of laws and regulations that could reasonably be expected to have a
material effect on the financial statements from our general commercial and sector
experience. through discussion with the Corporation (as required by auditing standards).
inspection of the College's regulatory and legal correspondence and discussed with the
Corporation the policies and procedures regarding compliance with laws and regulations.
We communicated identified laws and regulations throughout our team and remained
atert to any indications of non- compliance throughout the audit. The potential effect of
these laws and regulations on the financial statement varies considerably.

Firstly, the College is subject to laws and regulations that directly affect the financial
statements includirig financial reporting legislation and taxation tegislation and we
assessed the extent of compliance with these laws and regulations as part of our
procedures on the related financial statement items.

Secondly, the College is subject to many other laws and regulations where the
consequences of non- compliance could have a material effect on amounts or disclosure
in the financial statements, for instance through the imposition of fines or litigation. We
identified the following areas as those most likely to have such an effect: Compliance
with the requirement of the Education & Skills Funding Agency, The Charity Commission.
The Companies Act 2006, Ofsted, health and safety, building regulations, corporate
governance including safeguarding and wellbeing. human rights and employment law,
anti-bribery and corruption, Food Safety Act 1990 and GDPR, Auditing standards limit the
required audit procedures to identify non-compliance with these laws and regulations to
enquiry of the Corporation and other management and inspection of regulatory and legal
correspondence. if any.

Page 28 of 42

Audit procedures undertaken in response to the potential risks relating to irregularities
(which include fraud arid non-compliance with taws and regulations) comprised of:
enquiries of management and those charged with governance as to whether the College
complies with such regulations; enquiries of management and those charged wilh
governance concerning any actual or potential litigation or claims, inspection of relevant
legal documentation. review of board minutes, testing the appropriateness of journal
entries and the performance of analytical review procedures to identify any unexpected
movements in account balances which may be indicative of fraud.

There are inherent timitations in the audil procedures described above and the further
removed non-compliance with laws and regulations is from the events and transactions
reflected in the financial statements. the less likely we would become aware of it.
Irregularities that result from fraud might be inherently more difficult to. detect than
irregularities that result from error. As explained above. there is an unavoidable risk that
material misstatements may not be detected, even though the audit has been planned
and performed in accordance with ISAs (UK).

A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is
located on the Financial Reporting Council's website at ,

www fe org wh/auditersresponsibilitics This description forms part of our Auditor's
Report, .

Use of our report

This report is made solely to the College's members, as a body. in accordance with
Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so
that we might state to the College's members those matters we are required to state to
them in an Auditor's Report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by
law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the College and the
Coltege's members, as a body. for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we
have formed

Lunes Kero ft
Timothy O'Connor (Senior Statutory Auditor) for and on behalf of

Sumer Auditco Limited
Statutory Auditor

820 The Crescent
Colchester Business Park
Colchester

Sla}m

Page 29 of 42

Reporting Accountant's Assurance Report on
Regularity

To: The Corporation of Writtle College Limited and The
Secretary of State for Education acting through the Education
and Skills Funding Agency (ESFA)

In accordance with the terms of our engagement letter dated 11 April 2024 and further to
the requirements and conditions of funding in the ESFA's grant funding agreements and
contracts we have carried out an engagement to obtain limited assurance about whether
anything has come to our attention that would suggest that in all material respects the
expenditure disbursed and income received by Writtle College Limited during the period
1 March 2024 to 31 July 2024 have not been applied to the purposes identified by
Parliament and the financial transactions do not conform to the authorities which govern
them.

The framework that has been applied is set out in the Post-16 Audit Code of Practice (‘the
Code") issued by the ESFA, In line with this framework, our work has specifically not
considered income received from the main funding grants generated through the
Individualised Learner Record {ILR) returns, for which the ESFA has other assurance
arrangements in place.

This report is made solely to the Corporation of Writtle College and ESFA in accordance
with the terms of our engagement letter. Our work has been undertaken so that we might
state to the Corporation of Writtle College and the ESFA those matters we are required to
state in a report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law. we do not
accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Corporation of Writtle College
and the ESFA for our work, for this report. or for the conclusion we have formed.

Respective responsibilities of The Corporation of Writtle
College Limited and the reporting accountant

The Corporation of Writtle College. is responsible, under the requirements of the Further &
Higher Education Act 1992, subsequent legislation and related regulations and guidance.
for ensuring that expenditure disbursed, and income received is applied for the purposes
intended by Parliament and the financial transactions conform to the authorities which
govern them,

Our responsibilities for this engagement are established in the United Kingdom by our
profession's ethical guidance and are to obtain limited assurance and report in accordance
with our engagement letter and the requirements of the Code. We report to you whether
anything has come to our attention in carrying out our. work which suggests that in all
material respects, expenditure disbursed. and income received during the period 1 March
2024 to 31 July 2024 have not been applied to purposes intended by Parliament or that
the financial transactions do not conform to the authorities which govern them.

Approach

We conducted our engagement in accordance with the Code issued by the ESFA. We
performed a limited assurance engagement as defined in that framework.

Page 30 of 42

The objective of a limiled assurance engagement is to perform such procedures as to
obtain information and explanations in order to provide us with sufficient approptiate
evidence to express a negative conclusion on regularity.

A limiled assurance engagement is more limited in scope than a reasonable assurance
engagement and consequently does not enable us to obtain assurance thal we woutd
become aware of all significant matters thal mighi be identified in a reasonable assurance _
engagement Accordingly. we do not express a positive opinion

Our engagement includes examination. on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the
regularity of the College's income and expenditure
The work undertaken to draw to our conclusion inctudes:
* A review of the Colleges Self-Assessment Questionnaire for the period 1 March
2024 to 31 July 2024
« Areview of the evidence supplied by the College to support the Self-Assessment
Questionnaire and discussions with members of the Colleges staff.
« Tests of detail

Conclusion

in the course of our work, nothing has come to our attention which suggests that in all
material respects the expenditure disbursed and income received during the period 1
March 2024 to 31 July 2024 has not been applied to purposes intended by Partiament and
the financial transactions do not conform to the authorities which govern them

Sumer Auditco Limited

Statutory Auditor

Colchester

" Date:

Spiele

Page 3) of 42

Financial Statements

Statement of Comprehensive Income and Expenditure
For the period ended 31 July 2024

For theten .
month period
ended
2024
Notes £
Income

Tuition Fees 2 533,204
Funding Body Grants 3 2,322,226
Other Income 4 12,419
Total income 2,867,849

Expenditure
Staffcosts - . -) 1,437,284
Other operating expenses 6 1,287,639
Total Expenditure 2,724,923
Surplus before Tax . . 142,926
Taxation © . , -
Surplus for the period 142,926

There was no other comprehensive income for 2024

Allitems of income and expenditure relate to continuing activities
All items of income and expenditure relate to unrestricted funds

The notes on pages 36 to 42 form part of these financial statements.

Page 32 of 42

Statement of changes in reserves .
As at 31 July 2024

_ Balance at date of incorporation 9 October 2023

Surplus for the period

Balance at 31 July 2024

The notes on pages 36 to 42 form part of these financial statements.

Page 33 of 42. |

Total

142,926

142,926

Balance Sheet
As at 31 July 2024

Current Assets
Trade and other receivables

Cash and cash equivalents

Creditors: amounts falling due within one year

Net Current Assets -

Total net assets

Unrestricted reserves

Income and expenditure account _
Total unrestricted reserves

Total reserves

The notes on pages 36 to 42 form part of these financial statements.

Note

2024

138,783

1,440,507

1,579,290

- (1,436,364)

142,926

142,926

142,926

142,926

142,926

The financial statements were approved and authorised for issue by the Board of

Governors on 20 November 2024 and signed on its behalf on that date by:

AR Spaiks
Chair of the Board of Directors

R Harrison

Interim Principal and Accounting Officer

. Page 34 of 42

Statement of cash flows
For the period ended 31 July 2024

£

For the
ten month
period
ended
31 July
2024
Cash flow from operating activities

Surptus for the period 142,926

Adjustments for non-cash items .
Increase in debtors (138,783)
Increase in creditors due within one year 1,065,631
Increase in amounts owed to group undertakings 370,733
Cash flows from operating activities 1,440,507
Taxation paid : -
Net cash inflow from operating activities 1,440,507
Increase in cash and cash equivalents 1,440,507
Cash and cash equivalents at incorporation on 9 October 2023 -
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 July 2024 1,440,507
1,440,507

The notes on pages 36 to 42 form part of these financial statements.

Page 35 of 42

Notes to the financial statements
For the ten-month period ended 31 July 2024

Statement of Accounting Policies and estimation techniques

Company Information

Writtle Coltege Limited is an exempt educational charity and a company limited by
guarantee. Itis.a Further Education College regulated by the Office for Students. It is a
wholly owned subsidiary company of Anglia Ruskin Higher Education Corporation. Its
registered number is 15198562. The company’s registered office is Bishop Hall Lane.
Chelmsford, Essex, CM11SQ, .

Statement of accounting policies and estimation techniques

The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items
which are considered material in relation to the financial statements.

Basis of Preparation

The financial statements have been prepared In accordance with United Kingdom
generally accepted accounting practice. A'ssummary of the more important accounting
policies, which have been applied consistently. is set out below.

The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the Statement of
Recommended Practice (SORP): Accounting for Further and Higher Education 2019. the
College Accounts Direction for 2023 - 2024 and in accordance with Financial Reporting
Standard 102 - ‘The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the United Kingdom and
Repubiic of Ireland” (FRS 102). and the Companies Act 2006. The company is a public
benefit entity and therefore has applied the relevant public benefit requirements of FRS
102. :

The preparation of financial statements in cornpliance with FRS102 requires the use of
certain critical accounting estimates, It also requires management to exercise judgement
in applying the college's accounting policies.

a) Basis of Accounting
The financial statements have been prepared under the historic cost convention.

The financial statements are presented in sterling which is also the functional currency of
the college,

b) Income recognition

Revenue grant funding

Income from Tuition fees is recognised net of fee waivers, in the income and expenditure
account over the period in which the students are studying and includes all fees payable
by students or their sponsors. Bursaries and Scholarships where payment is conditional
upon academic progress. are accounted for on a gross basis as expenditure and included,
within operating expenditure. Income from grants contracts and other services rendered

Page 36 of 42

is included to the extent the conditions of the funding have been met or the extent of the
comptetion of the contract or service concerned. All income from short term deposits is
credited to the income and expenditure account in the period in which it is earned.

Capital grant funding

Government capital grants are capitalised, held as, deferred income and recognised in
income over the expected useful life of the asset, under the accrual model as permitted
by FRS 102. Other, non-governmental, capital grants are recognised in income when the
college is entitled to the funds subject to any performance related conditions being met.
Income received in advance of performance related conditions being met is recognised
as deferred income within creditors on the Balance Sheet and released to income as
conditions are met.

¢) Financiat instruments

Financial instruments are classified and accounted for, according to the substance of the
contractual arrangement, as either financial assets, financial liabilities or equity
instruments. An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the
assets of the company after deducting allt of its liabilities. The company only has financiat
assets and financial liabilities that qualify as basic financial instruments. Basic financial
instruments are initially recognised at transaction value and subsequently measured at
their settlement value,

d) Taxation status

Writtle College Limited is an exempt charity within the meaning of Part 3 of the Charities
Act 2011. It is therefore a charity within the meaning of Para 1 schedule 6 of the Finance
Act 2010 and accordingly. is potentially exempt from UK Corporation Tax in respect of
income or capital gains received within categories covered by section 478 - 488 of the
Corporation Tax Acct 2-21 (CTA 2010) or section 256 of the Taxation of Chargeable Gains
Act 1992 to the extent that such income or gains are applied exclusively to charitable
purposes.

Writtle College Limited receives no similar exemption in respect of Value Added Tax. As
the majority of its income comes from the provision of further education to students
under 19 years of age and grants from the Education and Skills Funding Agency it is
unable to recover the majority of its input tax on purchases.

@) Going Concern

The activities of the college. together with the factors likely to affect its future
development and performance are set out in the Strategic Report. The financial position
of.the college, its cashflow, liquidity and borrowings are presented in the Financial
Statements and accompanying Notes,

Consequently. the Corporation is confident that the College will have sufficient funds to
continue to meet its liabilities as they fall due for at least 12 months from the date of
approval of the financial statements and have therefore prepared these statements ona
going concern basis.

F) Short term employment benefits

Short term employment benefits such as salaries and compensated absences (holiday
pay) are recognised as an expense in the year in which the employees render service to

Page 37 of 42

" the college. Any unused benefits are accrued and measured as the additions mount the
coltege expects to pay as a result of the unused entittement.

g) Cash and Cash Equivalents

Cash is represented by cash in hand and deposits with finaricial institutions repayable

without penalty on notice of not more than 24 hours. Cash equivalents are highly liquid

investments that mature in rio more than three months from the date of acquisition and
_ that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash with insignificant risk of change in

value. .

h) Judgements in applying accounting policies and key sources of estimation uncertainty
In preparing these financial statements, management have made the following
judgement: The directors are of the opinion that there are no significant judgments or

‘ estimates applicable to the financial statements other than the holiday pay accrual as
required by FRS 102.

Page 38 of 42

Notes to the accounts (continued)

2. Tuition Fees & education contracts
FE Student Fees

High Needs Funding

Other Fees and Support Grants

3. Funding Body Grants
Education and Skills Funding
Agency (ESFA)

4, Other income

Facilities hire

Sundry student related income
Other income

5. Staff costs

Staff Costs:
Salaries
Social security costs
Pension costs

~ Total

During the period the average number of people employed by the College was 58. alt of

whom were on academic contracts.

Page 39 of 42

2024

442,858
71,126

19,220
533,204

2,322,226

530
2.632
9.257

12,419

1,118,314
95,090

223,880.
1,437,284

Emoluments of the Principal and Accounting Officer
The emoluments of the Principal and Accounting Officer. for the period, are shown below.
2024
£
Salary 37,994
Pension contributions 8,997.
46,991

The remuneration of the Principal and Accounting Officer for.Writtle College was
determined through agreed benchmarking. considering the accountabllities of the rote
and expertise of the post holder. As noted elsewhere in this document. the Principal is the
Accounting Officer for Writtle College.

Key Management personnel compensation

Key management personnel are those persons having authority and responsibility for

planning. directing and controlling the activities of the College. The sole key manager
under this definition during the period under review was the Principal and Accounting

Officer whose emotuments are disclosed above.

Remuneration of higher paid staff (including the Principal and Accounting Officer).
excluding employer's pension contributions are as follows:

Key
Management :
Personnel Other Staff
2024 2024
Number Number
£60,001 - £65,000 , ; 1
£90,001 - £95,000 : 1

The above table contains the annualised equivalent remuneration of a member of staff
who received £51,854 for working 0.8 FTE.

Relationship of Principal's pay and remuneration expressed as a multiple

“The.Principal's basic salary is 2.93 times the median basic pay of staff. where the median
pay is calculated on a fult time equivalent basis. for a full year, for the sataries paid by the
provider to its staff. :

The Principal's total emoluments are also 2.93 times the median emoluments of staff,

where the median is calculated on a full time equivalent basis for a full year equivalent for
a full year, for the emotuments paid by the provider to its staff.

Page 40 of 42

Payments made to Governors

During the period under review, expenses of £599 were paid to 1 Governor to meet the

costs of carrying out their responsibilities as a Governor.

No member of the Corporation other than the Principal and staff governor (as a staff

member) received payment other than expenses from the College.
6, Other operating expenses

Examination expenses
Student Bursaries

Course consumables
Auditors’ remuneration
Agency staff

Travel and hospitality
Governors’ expenses
Printing and reprographics
Professional & Consultancy
Support services plus overheads recharge from ARU
Other Expenses

7. Trade and other receivables

Trade debtors
Funding bodies debtor (Teachers' Pension
Scheme Grant)

Trade receivables include amounts due from students in respect of fees.

All debtors are due in less than one year.

Page 41 of 42

2024
£

79.674
36,644
17,915
15,000
24,420
7,154
2.823
16,045
9,000
1.018.086
60.878

1,287,639

2024

_ £
65,958
72,825

138,783

8, Creditors: Amounts falling due within one year

2024

£

Trade creditors 6,789

- Accruais 42,391
Holiday pay accrual 15,000
Funding Bodies 89,241
Amounts owed to group undertakings - ARU 370,733
Deferred Capital grant . 826,800
Other creditors : 85,410
1,436,364.

9, Related Party Transactions

In the period under review the following transactions took place between Writtle College
Limited and its ultimate parent undertaking and controlling party, Anglia Ruskin Higher
Education Corporation (trading as Anglia Ruskin University)

Under the shared service agreement between the two parties:

Recharge by Anglia Ruskin University to Writtle College Limited for shared services
£799.491 and for academic support services £218.595, The combined recharge of
£1018,086 is included in other operating expenses as disclosed in note 6.

There are no other related party transactions.

The company is included within the consolidated financial statements of Anglia Ruskin
University, whose principal place of business is Bishop Hall Lane, Chelmsford, Essex. CM1
1SQ.

At the period end the Writtle College Ltd owed £370,733 to its parent entity, Anglia
Ruskin Higher Education Corporation.

10. Ultimate parent undertaking and controlling party
The Directors regard Anglia Ruskin University Higher Education Corporation, a statutory
corporation created by the exercise of the powers conferred on the Secretary of State by
the Education Reform Act 1988. and amended by the 1992 Act. as the ultimate parent
body. Copies of the Parent's consolidated financial statements may be obtained from the
Finance Director, Anglia Ruskin University, Rivermead Gate, Bishops Hat Lane.
Chelmsford, Essex. CM1.1SQ,

Page 42 of 42

