=

Registered number: 04402048

Annual report and financial statements

For the period ended 31 March 2024

Aer


Directors

Registered number

Registered office

Auditors

Company Information

C P Booth
HN Singh
C Lugar-Mawson

04402048

1 Admiral Way

Doxford International Business Park
Sunderland

SR3 3XP

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
Central Square South

Orchard Street

Newcastle upon Tyne

NE1 3AZ

Strategic report

Directors’ report

Independent auditors’ report
Statement of comprehensive income
Balance sheet ,
Statement of changes in equity

Notes to the financial statements

Contents

Page(s)
1-8
9-16
17-20
21
22 - 23
24
25-49

XC TRAINS LIMITED

Strategic report
For the period ended 31 March 2024

The directors present their Strategic report for the 15 month period ended 31 March 2024.

During the period the company changed its accounting reference date from 31 December to 31 March. This
change resulted in the comparative figures, which cover the 12 month period to 31 December 2022, not being
directly comparable to amounts for the current period, which represent results for a 15 month period.

PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES
The principal activity of the company during the period was the operation of passenger railway services.
REVIEW OF BUSINESS

From 18 October 2020 XC Trains Limited operated under an Operating Contract Franchise Agreement (OCFA)
with the Department for Transport. During 2023 it secured the right to continue operating the CrossCountry
passenger rail franchise under a National Rail Contract (NRC), effective from 15 October 2023, with a four year
core term and a maximum possible term of eight years.

The NRC enabled the company to lease additional rolling stock consisting of 60 vehicles which will make up 12
5-car units, to provide additional capacity, alongside contractualising a full fleet refurbishment of both the
Voyager and Turbostar fleets. This refurbishment includes fitting CCTV, Automatic Passenger Counting
equipment on board, new carpets and LED lighting, and is supported by new maintenance contracts for both
fleet types. The refurbishment of the entire fleet is expected to commence in September 2024 and take 29
months, with the last unit expected to be completed in February 2027. There will also be further enhancements
to the timetable, including a new daily direct service between Cardiff and Edinburgh from December 2024,
strengthening connections across Great Britain.

Under the terms of both the OCFA and subsequent NRC contracts the company’s cost risk is fully mitigated
with the company receiving periodic franchise payments equivalent to the total costs incurred for delivering its
service obligations, subject to those costs being consistent with the business acting as a good and efficient
operator, less the total revenue generated from performance of those obligations. The company receives a
performance fee, comprising fixed and target-based components, for operating the franchise during the
contract term. For the period 14th October 2023 to 31st March 2025 the business is able to earn additional
target based fee if it realises revenue in excess of an agreed threshold.

The company's profit before tax was £17,796,000 (2022: £8, 109,000).

An increase in profit before tax was due to the release of accruals that were held before entering into the Direct
Award Franchise Agreement (DAFA). As the accruals were created before the DAFA, during a legacy contract,
they are outside of the revenue support mechanism of the Emergency Measures Agreement (EMA) and
subsequent OCFA. This combined with higher interest receivable accounted for the increase in profit before
tax.

As at the balance sheet date, the company had net assets of £28,098,000 (2022: £42,478,000). The
movement comprises profit for the period after tax together with a share capital reduction. During the period
20,500,002 of issued ordinary shares were cancelled thereby reducing the balance of share capital from
£22,500,002 to £2,000,000. £20,500,002 was then repaid on 29 December 2023 to the company's parent
Arriva UK Trains Limited.

Under the NRC any capital expenditure that is required to be incurred, as deemed by and agreed with the
Department for Transport (DfT), during the current franchise term will be fully funded. The company is not
currently committed to incur capital expenditure during the remainder of the current franchise term, but is
working with the DfT to formulate plans and proposals to invest in its rolling stock.

The directors consider the state of the company's affairs to be satisfactory.

Page 1

XC TRAINS LIMITED

Strategic report (continued)
For the period ended 31 March 2024

PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES

The management of the business and the execution of the company's strategy are subject to a number of
risks.

Breach of franchise

On 19 September 2023 XC Trains Limited signed a National Rail Contract (NRC) with the Secretary of State
for Transport to continue operating the Cross Country franchise. The NRC commenced on 15 October 2023
with a core term of 4 years and a maximum possible term of 8 years.

The impact of changes in passenger numbers on this risk was mitigated by the introduction of the EMA and
subsequently the NRC, subject to the company acting as a good and efficient operator.

Major Incidents
As with any operator of public transportation there is the risk that the company is involved in a major incident,

which could result in injuries to the public or staff. Resulting risks include damage to the company's reputation
- and possible claims against the company. No major incidents has occurred during the period.

Turnover
Risks and uncertainties affecting the company are considered to relate to local and national competition and
some factors which could cause a decline in the market. No major incidents has occurred during the period.

. On 31 March 2020 the: company and the DfT entered into an Emergency Measures Agreement (EMA), which
was a deed of amendment to the franchise agreement and remained in force until the end of the Direct Award
Franchise Agreement (DAFA) on 18 October 2020, and beyond, into the new franchise term. The EMA
introduced a revised franchise payment mechanism, which mitigated the company's revenue risk exposure
from changes in passenger volumes during the period of its operation. This payment mechanism was retained
in the NRC.

Since 2022 there has been industry wide industrial action by the 3 trade unions that represent XC Trains’
collectively bargained employee groups in a dispute over jobs, pay and conditions. Under the terms of the NRC
the company’s revenue risk is fully mitigated, and the management of the business have prepared and
deployed a dispute handling plan to mitigate against the operational impacts and to ensure the business will
not be adversely financially impacted by this action.

Further discussion of the risks and uncertainties in the context of the group as a whole, is provided in the
annual report of the UK intermediate parent company, Arriva Limited (formerly Arriva plc), which does not form
part of this report.

FINANCIAL KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS

During the’ 15 month. period ended March 2024, the Management Board of Deutsche Bahn AG, the ultimate
parent company, managed the group's operations on a divisional basis. For this reason, the company’s
directors. believe that analysis using key performance indicators for the company is not necessary or
appropriate for an understanding of the development, performance or position of the business of the company.
The development, performance and position of the Arriva group, including this company, is discussed in the
Deutsche Bahn AG group’s 2024 Integrated Report which does not form part of this report.

Page 2

XC TRAINS LIMITED

Strategic report (continued)
For the period ended 31 March 2024

SECTION 172 (1) STATEMENT

Section 172 (1) of the Companies Act 2006 requires a director of a company to act in the way he or she
considers, in good faith, would most likely promote the success of the company for the benefit of its members
as a whole. In doing this, section 172 (1) requires a director to have regard to (amongst other matters):

the likely consequences of any decisions in the long-term;

the interests of the company’s employees;

the need to foster the company's business relationships with suppliers, customers and others;

the impact of the company’s operations on the community and environment;

the desirability of the company maintaining a reputation for high standards of business conduct; and
the need to act fairly as between members of the company.

ce eo ee

The directors of the company aim to meet at least quarterly in each financial period to discuss the matters that
cannot be delegated under the Companies Act 2006. The role of the company’s board of directors (the Board)
is to be collectively responsible for the company’s long-term sustainable success, providing strategic
leadership, direction and governance within a framework of effective controls. The Board recognises that it is
accountable to its stakeholders for ensuring that the company is appropriately managed and achieves its
objectives in a way that is supported by the right culture and behaviours. The issues and factors which have
guided the directors’ decisions are outlined in the Review of business’ and the ‘Principal Risks and
Uncertainties’ sections of this report.

The implementation of the strategy and policies of the company, including those relating to its relationships
with key stakeholders, are managed by the Management Board of the company, which includes directors from
the Arriva UK Trains Leadership team as well as the company’s statutory directors. Any major matters of
interest are then communicated to the Arriva Management Board (the “AMB”), a subcommittee of the board of
Arriva Limited (formerly Arriva pic). The membership of the AMB includes the Managing Director of the Arriva
UK Trains division.

The company operated under an Operating Contract Franchise Agreement (OCFA) with the Department for
Transport (DfT) until October 2023, and currently operates under a National Rail Contract (NRC) with the
Department for Transport. This is a contract to provide passenger railway services, which commenced on 15
October 2023 with a four-year core term and a maximum possible term of eight years.

During the 15 month financial period ended 31 March 2024, the company has and continues to engage with its
client (the DfT), customers and customer groups to ensure a positive customer experience. Two-way
communication is a key focus area for the company as it believes that it helps the company to build trust and
rapport with its stakeholders. The company's engagement with customers includes the following:

* Ongoing and frequent engagement with the DfT including periodic financial and operational review meetings

+ A dedicated passenger contact centre and a social media team, who are available to support passengers with
their queries and take on board any feedback. .

+ Passenger surveys, travel reviews and organised focus groups.

The company takes payment practice commitments to suppliers seriously and seeks to ensure prompt
payment of invoices (in line with Arriva group’s defined policies) and a clear process in event of any invoice
dispute. The company believes that prompt payment of invoices is key to facilitating a good relationship with
suppliers.

The company is committed to delivering positive social value to the communities it serves. At the forefront of
this engagement is the continuing collaboration with Community Rail Partnerships. These partnerships
continue to deliver societal benefits across the network, including initiatives to combat anti-social behaviour,
integrated public transport and accessibility schemes to remove barriers to travel, and promoting the
environmental benefits of rail travel. This often involves collaboration with key industry partners such as other
Train Operators and Network Rail to maximise the reach and community benefits.

Page 3

XC TRAINS LIMITED

Strategic report (continued)
For the period ended 31 March 2024

SECTION 172 (1) STATEMENT (CONTINUED)

Reflecting society's recognition of a need to support and educate future generations, another big part of this
year’s work has been on projects that promote education. These have included schemes to raise awareness of
the social and environmental benefits of rail travel, and dedicated Science, Technology, Engineering and Math
(STEM) projects promoting education and career opportunities in the rail sector. The company has built on
courses that were delivered last year in the South West in conjunction with a charity organisation and brought
the scheme inhouse to deliver them across various locations in the West Midlands in collaboration with a
Community Rail Partnership, specifically targeting low income communities. The company has maintained the
partnership with The Prince's Trust, welcoming two cohorts of young people and providing an insight into its
business and the wider rail industry.

Further information on engagement with employees during the 15 month financial period ended 31 March
2024, including monitoring how the company is performing against the Arriva group’s strategy in relation to
employees, is provided in the ‘Employee engagement' section of the Directors’ report.

Further information on engagement with customers during the 15 month financial period ended 31 March 2024,
is provided in the ‘Engagement with suppliers, customers and others’ section of the Directors’ report.

Non-Financial and sustainability information statement (NFSIS)

The company operates the CrossCountry passenger rail franchise, currently under a National Rail Contract
(NRC) with the Department for Transport (DfT) that commenced in October 2023, and prior to this under an
Operating Contract Franchise Agreement (OCFA) with the DfT. Under the NRC and the OCFA, risks and
opportunities that could result in changes to future revenues and costs, including those that could arise due to
the impact of climate risks or opportunities, are substantially mitigated, subject to the company delivering on its
service obligations and the costs the company may incur being consistent with the business acting as a good
and efficient operator.

The company receives a performance fee, comprising fixed and target-based components, for operating the
NRC over its term. Under this fee mechanism, the company has limited opportunities to benefit from climate-
related reductions in costs or increases to revenue that may arise from future decarbonisation and/or increase
in demand for the company’s services from switching to greener modes of transportation. Similarly, the
company is insulated from adverse revenue or cost impacts that may arise due to adverse climate-related
impacts on infrastructure used to operate its services that could result in service disruptions and / or from
impacts that could reduce passenger demand for the company's services.

Notwithstanding the mitigation the NRC provides to the company's financial performance and position from
climate-related risks and opportunities (CRROs), the company maintains regular and constructive engagement
with the DfT and Network Rail on sustainability initiatives with an aim to reduce the climate impacts of its
operations whilst maintaining an appropriate balance with the interests of the DfT and ultimately UK taxpayers.

Governance and risk management

The company is a member of the Arriva Limited group (‘Arriva’). Arriva is in the initial stages of development
and implementation of internal climate risk reporting. During the period under review Arriva (including the
company) did not have a group-wide methodology for assessing and managing CRROs across multiple
geographies and was a member of Deutsche Bahn AG (DB) Group with governance and frameworks
surrounding internal control and risk identification and reporting aligned to the requirements of DB.

As part of Arriva's change in governance and risk management processes, Arriva intends to integrate climate
risk into its day-to-day risk management procedures. This will include identification and assessment of the
CRROs at a group level and agreement of related metrics and targets for those risks and opportunities. Those
group level metrics and targets are expected to be incorporated into the company’s related metrics and targets,
subject to their alignment with the company's obligations to the DfT under the NRC.

Page 4

XC TRAINS LIMITED

Strategic report (continued)
For the period ended 31 March 2024

Non-Financial and sustainability information statement (NFSIS) (continued)
Governance and risk management (continued)

The board does receive reports on principal risks; however, climate risk is not currently considered to be a
principal risk due the mitigation of impacts to the financial performance and position of the company under the
NRC.

Arriva recognises the importance of the sustainability agenda, and during 2023, an Environmental, Social and
Governance (ESG) office was created that will support the group's development and implementation of climate
risk reporting. The ESG office is currently in the process of conducting a qualitative review and double
materiality assessment against the EU’s Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD) requirements for
Arriva, which will inform the identification, assessment, and measurement of CRROs for the group as part of
CSRD reporting.

Strategy

The company's Sustainability Strategy, covering the period 2021 to 2024, outlines the company’s ambition to
become a more sustainable business and includes related targets for reductions in fleet fuel consumption and
recycling of colleague waste (see Metrics and Targets). A new Sustainability Strategy for beyond 2024 is
currently being developed and expected to be published in September 2024.

The company is also a member of Arriva’s UK Trains division, which supports the UK government's target to
remove all diesel-only trains from service by 2040. The company is limited in the actions it can take during the
NRC to advance and contribute to this divisional target, as electrification of rail infrastructure by Network Rail is
necessary to enable use of electric trains on the company’s routes. However, during the period the company
has undertaken feasibility studies and a trial, involving:

« Production of a business case to the DfT regarding the hybridisation of the existing Voyager fleet that,
whilst determining this was not a positive business case, resulted in investigation of alternative methods for
reducing carbon emissions for the existing fleet;

A feasibility study for the use of Hydrogenated Vegetable Oil (HVO) fuels; and
Successful completion of a trial on the Turbostar fleet using Gas to Liquid (GTL) fuel.

In line with the Sustainability Strategy, the company also successfully implemented fleet modification initiatives
in the period to reduce fuel consumption on existing diesel trains, which included reducing the volume of fuel
carried on Voyagers and reducing the temperature on their heating, ventilation and air conditioning (HVAC)
systems, thereby increasing the fuel efficiency of those trains and reducing overall fuel consumption.

During the period the company partnered with GreenTheUK and the Royal Forestry Society to plant 5,000
climate resistant trees and has restored 5 hectares of wildflowers in Newport, Wales through collaboration with
Bugs Life.

The company has not yet conducted any scenario analysis on its future financial performance for different
potential climate scenarios; however, this is part of the group strategy for Arriva. As noted, the company’s
performance fee mechanism under the NRC substantially mitigates potential impacts of adverse climate
scenarios on the company’s financial performance over the life of the NRC. The company has no certainty of
future trading beyond the life of the NRC; hence it would not be meaningful for the company to include impacts
in any climate scenario where those impacts are expected to materialise only in the medium to long-term
beyond the last possible end date of the NRC.

Further information on the scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions for the company in the period under review is
included in the Streamlined Energy & Carbon Report on pages 13 to 15.

Page 5

XC TRAINS LIMITED

Strategic report (continued)
For the period ended 31 March 2024

Non-Financial and sustainability information statement (NFSIS) (continued)
Transition and physical risks and opportunities

The company’s ability to achieve transition to a lower or zero emissions fleet is influenced by government
policy and by obligations under its NRC. However, material opportunities for significant decarbonisation of the
fleet are dependent on the decisions and investment plans of Network Rail on electrification of rail
infrastructure and collaboration with the DfT and rolling stock operating companies to source and fund electric
or bi-mode fleet for providing the franchised services. As outlined, the company does not have material
financial exposure to fleet transition risks or opportunities due to the performance fee mechanism of its NRC.

Physical risks, such as more frequent flooding, storms, extreme rainfall, heatwaves, and droughts; and long-
term changes to baseline conditions, such as rising sea levels and a global increase in temperatures could
result in manifestation of the following:

e Operational disruptions: increased cancellations due to damage to rail / track beds or connective
infrastructure damage and electricity supply from flooding.

e« Asset damage: adverse weather conditions like flooding and heat damaged rails could cause damage to
depots and fleet, higher repair / maintenance costs and risk of stranded assets. ,

« Health and safety risk: an increased risk of traction issues and buckling of rails in extreme weather, and the
tisk of heatstroke to passengers and employees when travelling in heatwaves.

e Insurance: the cost of insuring fleet in a higher risk environment would likely increase;and

e Revenue loss: from operational disruptions as described above, and lower passenger numbers during
extreme weather conditions.

As with transition risks, the company’s NRC also mitigates the company’s financial exposure to physical risks
and limits potential opportunities. During the year the company conducted a PESTLE analysis which outlined
the importance of collaboration with Network Rail on infrastructure resilience and evaluating and responding to
extreme weather events. The company has previously identified a specific infrastructure risk on its
southwestern route that crosses the Dawlish coastline and has worked with Network Rail over the last few
years to strengthen the infrastructure on the Dawlish Sea Wall to maintain a safe and consistent operation of
services on this route.

Metrics and Targets

The company’s existing targets reflect those in the 2021-2024 Sustainability Strategy and are as follows:

« Reducing fuel consumption from the company's fleet by 1.5% annually
The company is on target to achieve this; through the fleet modifications made, a gradual decrease in
fuel consumption per vehicle mile between 2022 and 2023 was observed.
e Recycling at least 65% of colleague waste
The company collects data for waste recycled at its Cannon House office each month and that data
shows the 65% recycling target is regularly exceeded.
e — Reducing the company’s non-traction energy use by 2.5% annually
Accurate measurement of progress against this target has been hindered by timeliness and accuracy of
data available due to the current infrastructure. The company is investing resources into improving the
provision of baseline data to allow for future measurement.

Targets for subsequent periods may be revised once the company’s new Sustainability Strategy has been
finalised or to align to any group metrics and targets defined and published in the future by Arriva.

Page 6

XC TRAINS LIMITED

Strategic report (continued)
For the period ended 31 March 2024

FUTURE DEVELOPMENTS

Since 2022 there has been industry wide industrial action by the 3 trade unions that represent XC Trains'
collectively bargained employee groups in a dispute over jobs, pay and conditions. The management of the
business have prepared and deployed a dispute handling plan to mitigate against the operational impacts and
to ensure the business will not be adversely financially impacted by this action. Under the terms of the NRC the
company’s revenue risk is fully mitigated and its earnings are limited to a fixed management fee and target-
based performance payment for operating the franchise during the NRC term. The NRC also provides for
funding of capital expenditure and for working capital cash flow support for duration of the franchise term, if
required.

During 2024 XC Trains will begin the refurbishment of its entire fleet of rolling stock, and by June 2025 XC
Trains will lease a further 12 5-car Voyager units to provide additional capacity and to meet the demands of an
enhanced timetable which includes the introduction of a new daily direct service between Cardiff and
Edinburgh from December 2024.

The NRC imposes a limit on the company's earnings but provides a level of certainty and significantly protects
the company from loss for the remainder of the contract's term.

The directors have prepared the financial statements on a going concern basis as they expect that the
company will continue to operate for the foreseeable future. Due to the payment and funding mechanism in
place under the NRC the company remains confident that it will trade in line expectations for the remainder of
the franchise contract term.

On 19 October 2023, Deutsche Bahn AG announced an agreement had been signed under which Arriva
Limited, the intermediate parent company, would be sold to | Squared Capital. The transaction completed on
31 May 2024. Management will continue to work with the new owners going forward.

The Labour Government set out in the King’s Speech on 17 July 2024, its intention to legislate to bring rail
services back into public ownership through the ‘Passenger Railway Services (Public Ownership) Bill.

in tine with the UK Government's manifesto commitment, the Bill makes the necessary amendments to the
Railways Act 1993 to enable services currently contracted by the Secretary of State of Transport to transfer to
public ownership as those contracts end in accordance with their terms, including through the use of
contractual break points. The Bill also allows for existing franchises to be extended by way of a further direct
award.

The UK Government has not at this stage set out a detailed schedule of expiry dates for existing contracts and
has indicated this will depend on the pace of progress of the Bill through Parliament. The UK Government has
made clear its expectation that all services will have transferred to Great British Railways by the end of the
current five-year Parliament.

The UK Government has also confirmed its intention to publish a Railways Bill to establish ‘Great British
Railways’ to create a unified rail system bringing track and train back together and planning services on a
whole-system basis, alongside other reforms including establishing a passenger watchdog (Passenger
Standards Authority).

The UK Government has confirmed that wherever there is a case that open access operators can add value to
the network, as assessed by the Office for Road and Rail, they will be able to.

XC Trains Limited is contracted by the Secretary of State of Transport under a National Rail Contract with a
four year core term to 15th October 2027 and a maximum possible term of eight years. There is therefore no
impact on the financial statements to 31st March 2024.

The directors acknowledge the appeal judgement dated 25 July 2024 in the case of NTL v Virgin Media and
will be reviewing the implications for XC Trains Limited in the coming months.

Page 7

a Fas Be
"¢XCTRAINS|LIMITED

Strategic report (continued)
For the period ended 31 March 2024

This report was approved by the board on 9 August 2024 and signed on its behalf.

Wee Ss Qj

ent N Singh
Director


piete

a ee a ee eee

Directors’ report
For the period ended 31 March 2024

The directors present their report and the financial statements for the 15 month period ended 31 March 2024.
RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS
The profit for the period, after taxation, amounted to £13,532,000 (2022:£6, 546,000).

The company paid a dividend during the period of £7,302,000 (2022: £Nil). The directors do not recommend
payment of any further dividend.

DIRECTORS
The directors who served during the period , and up to the date of signing the financial statements, were:

G Ingham (resigned 3 February 2023)

T G Joyner (resigned 15 February 2024)

C P Booth (appointed 22 February 2024)

HN Singh (appointed 6 October 2023)

C Lugar-Mawson

M F Goodall (appointed 28 April 2023 and resigned 20 February 2024)

FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT

During the 15 month period ended March 2024, Deutsche Bahn AG was the principal source of funding for
Arriva Limited (formerly Arriva plc) and its subsidiaries. The Arriva group's financial risks, including liquidity
risks and those arising from interest rates, commodity prices and currency fluctuations are managed in
accordance with the Deutsche Bahn AG treasury policy. For further details relating to financial risk
management please refer to the Deutsche Bahn AG 2024 _ Integrated Report,
(https://ir.deutschebahn.com/en/reports/db-group-and-db-ag/).

EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT

The company recognises that its employees are key to its success, and it is committed to creating a working
environment where everyone has the opportunity to learn, develop and contribute to the success of the
company, whilst working within a common set of values. The company aspires to be an employer of choice and
to employ a diverse workforce with the skills, abilities and attitudes to meet the company's business objectives
and needs. The company's aim is to provide appropriate remuneration, benefits and conditions of employment
which serve to attract, retain, motivate and reward its employees.

The company has, subject to the restraints of commercial confidentiality, a policy of employee involvement and
inclusion, by making information available to employees about recent and future developments and business
activities of the company, including financial and economic factors that may have impacted on the company's
performance.

Diversity and Inclusion

The Board are supportive of the Arriva Group's Inclusion strategy whereby all Arriva group employees are
considered and given fair and equal consideration. The Inclusion strategy aims to ensure a co-ordinated
approach to inclusion across all of its businesses by setting ambitious targets, so that all parts of the Arriva
group are aligned behind common goals.

eT ETT ee mom ee emer a eee eet

po ee om ee ee eee ete


Directors’ report (continued)
For the period ended 31 March 2024

EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
Diversity and inclusion (continued)

Having a strong strategy with clear targets will help the company to overcome societal challenges such as the
ageing population, the skills gap in professions such as engineering and the technological age which has
created a need for different skills and qualifications as the world transitions to net-zero. The group-wide
strategy aims to mitigate these factors by focusing on early careers and increasing the representation of
underrepresented groups to broaden the skills, perspectives and experiences of the workforce.

Employee feedback and communications

The company conducts both group wide and local employee surveys, the most recent survey took place in
October 2023, and just over 19,000 employees from the Arriva group took the opportunity to complete the
survey and share their views.

The employee surveys are used to highlight areas of engagement and areas for improvement and action. The
results of the employee surveys are shared with the Board by the Chief People Officer and discussed with the
Board, however, the AMB oversees the progress across the Arriva group to implement actions plans from the
employee surveys to improve any areas highlighted by the surveys, and to maintain those areas deemed to be
working well.

There are a number of communication platforms that the Arriva group uses to inform and engage its
employees and inform employees about the results of the employee surveys. Briefings are cascaded via line
managers, bulletins are posted via email and notice boards, as well as the Arriva group’s Yammer feed.

Employee health and wellbeing

All employees have access to online training and assessments on topics such as emotional wellbeing, mental
health and remote working. This is in addition to the Arriva group programme Global! Arriva Inclusion Network
(GAIN), which is aimed at promoting support for mental health and encouraging employees to share their
stories in order to tackle mental health concerns. GAIN is a place for employees to celebrate and share their
experience of working at the Arriva group. Open and honest feedback is vital to making the Arriva group a
place where employees can be themselves every day — regardless of their race, religion, disability, gender,
sexual orientation, or any other characteristic.

The GAIN community is supported by members of the AMB, who act as executive sponsors, using their voices
to influence change within the business. Five colleagues also lead the GAIN communities and act as a driving
force, helping to plan events, collate feedback and coordinate the group's activity.

tee tm tt ee ee ee ee ee ee;

2 nae


XC TRAINS LIMITED

Directors' report (continued)
For the period ended 31 March 2024

EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
Equal opportunities

The Arriva group believes in equal opportunities regardless of gender, age, disability, gender reassignment,
marriage and civil partnership, pregnancy and maternity, race, religion or belief, sex and sexual orientation.
This approach is underpinned by Arriva’s commitment to providing equal opportunities to its current and
potential employees and applying fair and equitable employment practices. The group gives full and fair
consideration to job applications from people with disabilities, considering their skills and abilities.

Where an employee may become disabled, whether through accident, illness or injury, every reasonable and
practicable consideration will be given to ensure that they may remain in employment. There may be some
instances where there are no reasonable adjustments that can be made; where this occurs, the company will
endeavour to find a suitable alternative position. The Arriva group’s Diversity, Inclusion and Equality Policy
forms part of the Arriva group policies and standards.

Leadership schemes

The Arriva group has a strategic objective to ‘build the future generation of leaders’ and building talent pools
helps to achieve this. In addition to local initiatives, group-wide programmes are in place to develop emerging
and future leaders across the Arriva group.

The ‘Emerging Leaders’ programme is aimed at identifying and developing future leaders whose next step is a
senior manager role, and who demonstrate the performance, potential and aspiration required to progress to
this. As part of this programme candidates are required to complete an assessment for development which will
give them the opportunity to discuss their career goals and experience in more detail and receive valuable
feedback on their strengths and development areas against the Arriva Leadership Model. The assessment will
result in a development plan, highlighting what steps they can take to help them achieve their career goals.
Following the assessment certain candidates progress to the next phase, which includes leadership workshops
and projects.

The ‘Lift Off for Leadership’ programme is an initiative for individuals who are still in the early stages of their
career, who have demonstrated the potential to be a leader of the future. The programme focuses on
improving readiness for broader roles. Participants join a 12-month programme of workshops and ongoing
development activities, including coaching and job shadowing. The company is an active participant in the
programme. The company also provides line managers with ‘Role of the Line Manager training’.

ENGAGEMENT WITH SUPPLIERS, CUSTOMERS AND OTHERS

The company seeks to achieve its strategic objectives by taking into account the needs of its stakeholders and
the impact the business of the Arriva group may have on them. The Board is aware that its decisions can
impact one or more groups of stakeholders and that effective engagement ensures that stakeholder interests
are considered in Board discussions and decisions.

The company's key stakeholders include, but are not limited to:

Client (the Department for Transport (DfT))

Customers

Employees

Suppliers

Deutsche Bahn AG (during the period under review only)
| Squared

Local communities in which the company is based.

re ee rd

Page 11

XC TRAINS LIMITED

Directors’ report (continued)
For the period ended 31 March 2024

ENGAGEMENT WITH SUPPLIERS, CUSTOMERS AND OTHERS (CONTINUED)

The company operated passenger railway services under an Operating Contract Franchise Agreement with the
DfT until 15 October 2023, and currently operates under a National Rail Contract (NRC). The contract is
managed through regular meetings which cover current operational! performance, all aspects of franchise
management and to highlight key initiatives and business developments. Financial and strategic management
is administered through an Annual Business Plan (ABP) process, where strategic plans and priorities are
communicated and aligned to the DfT strategic pillars.

The company is a wholly owned subsidiary of Arriva Limited (formerly Arriva plc). The implementation of the
strategy and policies of the company, including those relating to its relationships with key stakeholders, are
managed locally by the board of the company, and oversight is provided by the Arriva UK Trains Leadership
team. Any major matters of interest are then communicated to the Arriva Management Board (the “AMB"), a
subcommittee of the board of Arriva Limited (formerly Arriva plc). The membership of the AMB includes the
Managing Director of the UK Trains division.

The company engages extensively with national and local passenger groups, and collects feedback from
customers through a variety of methods, which are detailed below: .

« The company’s Customer Experience Survey (CES) is an industry-leading and award-winning customer
feedback management system, collecting customers’ views on journeys in real-time.

« The company’s Customer Relations Customer Experience Survey (CRCES) gathers real-time feedback
from customers that have had an interaction with its customer relations team.

« The company's Customer Panel conducts research on a quarterly to understand views on the customer
experience, with the subject changing each quarter.

« The quality of interaction between the company’s customers and the company's Customer Relations team
is regularly tracked via the Office of Rail and Road's (the "ORR's”) complaint tracker. The periodic results
of the ORR's complaint tracker are examined and shared with the company's Customer Relations team.

« The company also used other channels of communication in which passengers may input feedback, such
as Twitter, Facebook, Instagram and Messenger. Business insights are shared within the company in
periodic delivery meetings.

« The company also utilises the research team within its creative and media agency to monitor and support
the best optimisation across communication channels for the most appropriate customer focused
messaging and campaigns.

« The company regularly engages with the Community Rail Partnerships to foster strong local links and
better understand regionalised demand. Business intelligence gathered during this engagement is included
in the central reporting processes so action can be taken where issues or opportunities are identified.

Further information on how the directors have fostered relationships with suppliers and the local communities
in which the company is based is detailed in the Section 172 (1) statement in the Strategic report. Further
information on how the company has fostered relationships with its employees during the 15 month financial
period ending 31 March 2024 is provided in the Employee Engagement section of this report.

Page 12

XC TRAINS LIMITED

Directors’ report (continued)
For the period ended 31 March 2024

STREAMLINED ENERGY AND CARBON REPORTING DISCLOSURE (SECR)

UK energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions for XC Trains Limited (the company) for the period 1
January 2022 to 31 March 2024.

Energy usage for the Company in the United Kingdom

Current

reporting period
ended 31 March
2024

Previous
reporting year
ended 31
December 2022

Scope 1— Fuel use from transport and combustion of
natura! gas/tCO,e"

220,713 159,552

Scope 2 — Emissions resulting from the purchase of 401
electricity, including heat, steam, or cooling (location

based)/tCO,e

Scope 3?— Emissions from business travel in rental cars
or employee-owned vehicles where the company is
responsible for purchasing the fuel/tCO,e

Total gross emissions/tCO.e 221,210 159,953
tCO2e per full time equivalent employees 118.55 p95 |

Energy consumption used to calculate the above 871,116,397 593,126,495
emissions / kWh

1 The Accounting Reference Date for the company was extended from 31 December 2023 to 31 March 2024,
therefore the data included for the current reported year was for 15 months as opposed to 12 months

2 tCO2e means tonnes (t) of carbon dioxide (CO2) equivalent (e)

3 Due to aggregation of underlying data by the company, emissions from business travel (including company
owned vehicles) are included in Scope 3

Methodology

The company is required to report its UK energy use and carbon emissions in accordance with the Companies
({Directors' Report) and Limited Liability Partnerships (Energy and Carbon Report) Regulations 2018 which
implement the UK Government's policy on Streamlined Energy and Carbon Reporting. The data detailed in
these tables represent emissions and energy use for which the company is responsible and does not represent
data for the whole Arriva group.

Certain managers within the company are provided with access to a company car lease scheme. Emissions
from business mileage in relation to any vehicle leased under the company car lease scheme are included
within the above Scope 3 disclosure. Emissions from personal use of vehicles leased under the company car
lease scheme are not included in the above disclosures.

As a wholly owned subsidiary of Deutsche Bahn AG, the company is bound to use their approved emission
factors for site energy and the source for site consumption emission factors is the GEMIS database (GEMIS:
INAS, Darmstadt (Germany)). To calculate the emissions, the company has used the UK Government GHG
Conversion Factors for company Reporting 2023.

The emissions for the financial year ending 31st March 2024 have increased compared with the year ending

31st December 2022 due to an increase in services to meet the post-pandemic recovery of passenger
numbers, together with the impact of the extended reporting period.

Page 13

XC TRAINS LIMITED

Directors' report (continued)
For the period ended 31 March 2024

STREAMLINED ENERGY AND CARBON REPORTING DISCLOSURE (SECR) (CONTINUED)
Environmental Policy

Arriva group strives for best practice in environment, health, wellbeing and safety (‘EHS’) and aims to play an
important role in the reduction of greenhouse gases to stabilise the increase in global temperatures, reduce the
group’s ecological footprint, deliver business efficiencies and protect the environment.

The EHS policy, which consists of the group’s internal environmental risk assurance standards. The policy is
built around the following objectives:

robust environmental management and risk assurance;

clear accountability;

clear communication of goals and progress;

targeting improvements in CO2e emissions, Energy, Water and Waste; and

ensuring compliance with local law regulations, and that key environmental risks are mitigated.

Energy efficiency actions
The company, and the Arriva group, are committed to reducing their carbon footprint.

Across the 15 month financial period to March 2024 we have completed the following activities to support
energy efficiency across the network:

e Certified Integrated Environmental & Energy Management System which consists of ISO 14001:2015 &
ISO 50001:2018;

e Internal Environment and Energy audit across all locations;

« Implemented LED lighting at several locations; and

e Worked with our Facilities Management partner to refurbish properties at Edinburgh and Derby Ascot Drive
to increase the energy efficiency of the buildings.

Sustainability

Arriva cares passionately about its impact on society and our planet and that is why contributing to a more
sustainable future is at the heart of Arriva’s vision to help shape a future where passenger transport is the best
choice and is central to its strategy that drives our day-to-day decision-making. It is also why ‘doing the right
thing’ is one of the businesses core values.

The Zero Emission Institute (ZE!) was established in 2022, to provide the business with a central hub of
knowledge and expertise for Passenger Transport Authorities and for Arriva’s business units, sharing
experience and best practice in the roll-out of alternative fuels and transitioning fleets to zero emissions. Led
by a team of experts in fleet planning, infrastructure and technology, the aim of the ZEI is to accelerate Arriva's
journey to net-zero across Europe, working in partnership with cities and regions.

To reduce its impact on biodiversity the company has planted 5,000 climate resistant trees and has re-wilded 5
hectares of land in Newport to create a biodiverse habitat for local flora and fauna. The company also
implemented additional recycling facilities at staff locations and worked with its supply chain to improve the
sustainability of its procurement activity, including the removal of plastic-containing cleaning cloths and new
biodegradable cleaning gloves.

The company invested in modifications to its fleet to improve the fuel efficiency and reduce carbon emissions

from its services, including reducing the fuel tank capacity to reduce weight transported and a reduction in the
HVAC target temperature, and explored the use of alternative fuels including a GTL fuel trial.

Page 14

Directors’ report (continued)
For the period ended 31 March 2024

STREAMLINED ENERGY AND CARBON REPORTING DISCLOSURE (SECR) (CONTINUED)

Sustainability (continued)

By working with community partners such as the Prince’s Trust and Community Rail partnerships, the company
has sought to attract new talent and deliver social value across the communities it serves, whilst also creating
opportunities for upskilling through its apprenticeship programme and the implementation of Equality, Diversity
and Inclusion training.

QUALIFYING THIRD PARTY INDEMNITY PROVISIONS

The company has made qualifying third-party indemnity provisions for the benefit of its directors as part of a
group wide insurance policy. The qualifying third-party indemnity provisions (as defined in Section 234 of the
Companies Act 2006) which were made during the period ended 31 March 2024 and continue to remain in
force at the date of approval of these financial statements.

MATTERS COVERED IN THE STRATEGIC REPORT

Details of future developments of the company have been included in the Strategic report.

POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS

Details of post balance sheet events are provided in Note 23 to the financial statements.

Lo meme ote ee ee gee

Page 15

ST we poeta tyres

sty eee roars cr ae an er ae

Directors’ report (continued)
For the period ended 31 March 2024

DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENT IN RESPECT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual report and the financial statements in accordance with
applicable law and regulation.

Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial period. Under that law
the directors have prepared the financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted
Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101 “Reduced Disclosure
Framework", and applicable law). ,

Under company law, directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they
give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and of the profit or loss of the company for that
period. °

In preparing these audited financial statements, the directors are required to:

select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
state whether applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any
material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements; and

¢ prepare the audited financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume
that the company will continue in business.

The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain
the company's transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the

company and to enable them to ensure that the audited financial statements comply with the Companies Act
2006.

The directors are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and hence for taking reasonable
steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.

DIRECTORS’ CONFIRMATIONS

Each of the persons who are directors at the time when this Directors’ report is approved has confirmed that:

e so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the company's auditors are
unaware; and

e the director has taken all the steps that ought to have been taken as a director in order to be aware of any
relevant audit information and to establish that the company's auditors are aware of that information.

This report was approved by the board on 9 August 2024 and signed on its behalf.

HN Singh
Director

XC TRAINS LIMITED

Independent auditors’ report to the
members of XC Trains Limited

Report on the audit of the financial statements

Opinion
In our opinion, XC Trains Limited's financial statements:

give a true and fair view of the state of the company’s affairs as at 31 March 2024 and of its profit for the 15 month period then

ended;

* have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (United Kingdom
Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 “Reduced Disclosure Framework”, and applicable law), and

« have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.

We have audited the financial statements, included within the Annual report and financial statements (the “Annual Report”), which
comprise: the Balance sheet as at 31 March 2024; the Statement of comprehensive income and the Statement of changes in equity
for the period then ended; and the notes to the financial statements, comprising material accounting policy information and other
explanatory information.

Basis for opinion

We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) (“ISAs (UK)’) and applicable law. Our
responsibilities under ISAs (UK) are further described in the Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section
of our report. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.

Independence

We remained independent of the company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial
statements in the UK, which includes the FRC's Ethical Standard, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance
with these requirements.

Conclusions relating to going concern

Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified any material uncertainties relating to events or conditions that,
individually or collectively, may cast significant doubt on the company’s ability to continue as a going concern for a period of at least
twelve months from when the financial statements are authorised for issue.

In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting in the
preparation of the financial statements is appropriate.

However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this conclusion is not a guarantee as to the company's ability
to continue as a going concern.

Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the directors with respect to going concern are described in the relevant sections of
this report.

Page 17

XC TRAINS LIMITED

Independent auditors’ report to the
members of XC Trains Limited
(continued)

Reporting on other information

The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our auditors’
report thereon. The directors are responsible for the other information. Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the
other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this
report, any form of assurance thereon.

In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider
whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or
otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are
required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material
misstatement of the other information. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement
of this other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.

With respect to the Strategic report and Directors’ report, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies
Act 2006 have been included.

Based on our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006 requires us also to report certain opinions and
matters as described below.

Strategic report and Directors’ report

In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic report and Directors’
report for the period ended 31 March 2024 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with
applicable legal requirements.

In light of the knowledge and understanding of the company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not
identify any material misstatements in the Strategic report and Directors' report.

Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit

Responsibilities of the directors for the financial statements

As explained more fully in the Directors’ responsibilities statement in respect of the financial statements, the directors are responsible
for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a
true and fair view. The directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation
of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.

In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the company's ability to continue as a going concem,

disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors
either intend to liquidate the company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.

Page 18

61 a8eg

“yoda, sioypne ino yo Wed swJ0} UONdUOSep SIU “San|IgisuodseisuoypNe/yn-Bio“o4y MMM,
We aysqam S.OY4 au} UO payedo) si sjUaWa}E}s |eIOUeUY 94) JO WPNe ayy 40} SaNiqIsuodsal uno yo UONdUOSEp Jay) y

‘uoIsn|}oo YBNoy) Jo ‘suoeyuaseidassiw |euoUazU! JO AraBu0y ‘ajdwiexe Joy ‘Aq JUSW|e90U09 a}eJaqijap ajoaul Aew pney se
‘JONa WOs) Bunjnses auo Bunoajep jou Jo ys au) UeY) JeUBIY Ss! pney 0} enp juaWaje}ssiw |eueyeW e Bunoayep you jo ySU au} ‘Os|y
“s]UBW9]E]S |EIOURUY SU] UI Pa}oaye SUOOBSUB,) PU SJUdAe 0} PayEjas AJaSojo jou ae yeu) SUOHE|NBes pue sme] YIM eoUeT|dLUOD
-uou JO SaouRysU! Jo eIeMe BUODaq ©} Ajoy!| SSA] BIB aA, ‘@AOGe paquasep seinpeooid ypne ay) UI SUCHE} JUSIEYU! ele S194)

“suone|nBas pue sme] ajqeoydde yim
aoues|duu0o ssasse 0} ‘ayeludoudde aay ‘uojeyuatunoop Buoddns 0} Buse} pue sainsojosip yuawiayeys jetoueuy Buimainay =e
pue !ewayos UOISUad JaUaq PEUYap oy} JO JUsWaINSeeW
Burpnjou ‘sayewjse Bujunosse jueoyubis say) ul JUaWwaBeUeW Aq apew sjuaaBbpnl pue suondwinsse BulbuayeuD se
‘SUONJBUIGWOD JUNOOTe JensnuN YIM paysod saujua jeuino! Aue seinoped ul 'saljua j|ewnof Guysa) pue BuiAynuep)
“tsanue;nBe.! joe}ep pue juenaid 0} peuBlsep s[oyjuoo s,juswaeBeuew Jo uoHen|eAy
‘suoye|nBas pue sme] yim aouel|dwod-uou jenuajod Ajjuap! 0} Jea ay) ul aim|pusdxa jeBa] jo mainay
iseynulw pseog JO MalAey oe
‘pneu pue suonejnBbai
pue sme] YIM aouel|duoo-UdU yo seoueysU! payadsns 410 UMOUY JO UO!}2JapIsuoo Bulpnjou! ‘juawaebeuew ym suoissnosiq

:papnyoul
wes) juswabebue au) Aq peuuojied sainpasoid ypny ‘seyewljse Bujunoose pue sjuawebpnl jueoyiubis ul seiq yuawebeuew pue
youd 10 anuanal sAuedwoo ey) aJe}s19A0 0} SaljUa ;eUUNO! ayeJdouddeu! BuNsod 0} pajejas eam sys jediould ayy Jey) PaulWWajep
Pue ‘(s]0.1}U09 JO Apl4JeAO JO 4S By) Bulpnjoul) sjuewezeys eIOUeUY OY] JO LONe|NdiUeW yUe|NpNesy 404 salyluNyOddo pue seAUsoU!
Sjuawabeuew payenjers aM ‘900Z 10 SaluedWoD ey} SB YONs sjUaWA}e}s jeIoUeUY SU) UO JOedUUI JOoUIP e BABY yey} SUONEinBas
PUE SME] BSOY) PEJap!suoS Os|e ayy “S]JUOWA}e}S |eIOUUY BU} UO Joys JeLa}eW e eAey yYGiwW soue!|dwoCo-UOU YOIYM 0} JUa]X9 aU)
PaJepisuod am puke '(OYN) JOBNUOD ley |2uO}eN ay) ue (Y¥4D0) JueWeaBy asiyouel, JoeNUOD BunesedQ ay) 0} payejes Suoe;nBas
pue sme] yim aoueldwoo-uou jo sysu jedioud ayy yey) paynuep! am ‘Aysnpul pue Auedwod ay} jo Bulpueyssapun ino uo paseg

“moO|aq Payleyap S! ‘pney Buipnjour ‘sanueinBau! Bunsajep jo ajqedeo ave seunpaooid
JNO YoIYM oO} JUa}xe eUL “pnewy Huipnjou! ‘sene;nGewui jo joadse Ul sjUswa}e]Ssiw |eUa}eEW J99}ep 0} ‘aAoge paul|no ‘sani|iqisuodsal
4NO ym aul] Ul Sainpadoud UBisep ap, ‘suONe|nBe: pue smej YyIM eouel|dwoo-UOU Jo seouUR}sU! ale ‘pney Buipnjou! ‘saqueinBe.y

*s]uaWa}e]S
JeIoueUy asou} JO SISeq ay) UO AYE} SUBSN JO SUDISIDaP SIWOUODe aU) soUENyU! 0} pa}vadxa aq Ajqeuosea: pinod Kay) ‘ajeGeibbe
ay} ul Jo Ayenpiaipur ‘yl |euajew paiapisuoo ase pue JOUe JO pNesy Woy asue UBD SJUBWA}EISSIy) ‘s}SIXS  UBYM JUBWA}e}SSILU
jetuajzeu @ yoajap skeme jim (1M) SWSI YM eoUep0I0e U! payINpuO? yIPNe ue yey} sajUBJeNG e jou st jng ‘aouelnsse jo jana! YBIY
@ SI gouesnsse ajqeuoseey ‘uolUido Ino sepnjoul yey) Yodai ,suO}I|pNe Ue aNss! oO} pue JOA JO pney Oo} anp JeyoUM ‘jUaWA]e}SsILU
feUuayew Wo day Que a[OYM eB Se syUaWe}e}s |eIOUBUY a4} JaUyJOYM JNOge souRINsse aiqeUOsee, UIE]GO 0} Ge SEANoalqo INE

S}UBWAJE}S |EOUEUY 943 JO JIPNe ay) 405 salu|Iqisuodsas ,sioypny

(penurj}uod)
poHUT] suUIeIL OX Jo SIaquIoUI
oY} 0} J10dal s10yIpne JuUspuedapuy

Ga LIATT SNIVUL OX

XC TRAINS LIMITED

Independent auditors’ report to the
members of XC Trains Limited
(continued)

Use of this report

This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter
3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume respon sibility
for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly
agreed by our prior consent in writing.

Other required reporting

Companies Act 2006 exception reporting
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:

« we have not obtained all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or

* adequate accounting records have not been kept by the company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received
from branches not visited by us; or

* certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or

e the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.

We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.

lan Morrison (Senior Statutory Auditor)

for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
Newcastle upon Tyne

9 August 2024

Page 20

Statement of comprehensive income
For the 15 Month Period Ended 31 March 2024

15 month Year ended

period

ended 31

March 2024

Note £000

Turnover 4 589,619
Cost of sales (561,274)
Gross profit 28,345
Administrative expenses {13,269)
Operating profit 5 15,076
Interest receivable and similar income 10 10,598
Interest payable and similar expenses 11 (7,878)
Profit before tax 17,796
Tax on profit 12 (4,264)
Profit for the financial period / year 13,532

Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss:

Actuarial loss related to pension scheme (110)
Total other comprehensive (expense) / income (110)
Total comprehensive income for the period/year 13,422

The notes on pages 25 to 49 form part of these financial statements.

x orn SB oBote sme eee ee

31
December
2022
£000

511,262
(478,615)

32,647

(25,119)

7,528

1,745
(1,164)

8,109
(1,563)

6,546

6,546

Ce

Page 21

+ ee

COUT tren sn et ee gee ene ey

Balance sheet
As at 31 March 2024

Note
Fixed assets
Tangible assets 14
Current assets
Stocks 15 306
Debtors: amounts falling due after more
than one year 16 222,473
Debtors: amounts falling due within one year 16 137,882
Cash at bank and in hand 114,500

475,161

Creditors: amounts falling due within one
year 17 (202,834)
Net current assets
Total assets less current liabilities
Creditors: amounts falling due after more
than one year 18
Provisions for liabilities
Provisions for liabilities 20 (22,603)
Pension liability 22
Net assets

Capital and reserves

Called up share capital 21
Profit and loss account

Total shareholders’ funds

ae.

Page 22

*

31
31 March December
2024 2022
£000 £000
4,787 255
4,787 255

457

95,853

158,903

255,213

(199,339)

272,327 55,874
(277,114 56,129
(226,303) -

50,811 56,129
(13,651)
(22,603) (13,651)
(110) -
28,098 42,478
2,000 22,500
26,098 19,978
28,098 42,478
~ voceenme s So retreat tee or

Registered Rummbar:i0440

Balance sheet (continued)
As at 31 March 2024

The financial statements on pages 21 to 49 were approved and authorised for issue by the board and were
signed on its behalf on 9 August 2024.

HN Singh
Director

The notes on pages 25 to 49 form part of these financial statements.


Statement of changes in equity
For the 15 Month Period Ended 31 March 2024

Called up Profit and Total
share loss shareholders’
capital account funds
£000 £000 £000
At 1 January 2022 22,500 13,432 35,932
Comprehensive income for the year
Profit for the financial year - 6,546 6,546
At 31 December 2022 and 1 January 2023 22,500 19,978 42,478
Comprehensive income/(expense) for the period
Profit for the financial period , : - 13,532 13,532
Actuarial loss related to pension scheme - (110) (110)
Total comprehensive income for the period - 13,422 13,422
Contributions by and distributions to shareholders :
Dividends paid (Note 13) - (7,302) _ (7,302)
Shares cancelled during the period (20,500) - (20,500)
Total transactions with shareholders ‘ (20,500) (7,302) (27,802)
At 31 March 2024 2,000 26,098 28,098

The notes on pages 25 to 49 form part of these financial statements.

+

«

TT Aa ere te cite aero

BLT WELT ro osteo sat ae ee en te

we oe te beet

. _ Page 24

area es


XC TRAINS LIMITED

Notes to the financial statements
For the period ended 31 March 2024

1. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES
1.1 BASIS OF PREPARATION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101
‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’ (FRS 101) and the Companies Act 2006 as applicable to
companies using FRS 101. The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the
financial statements are set out below and have been consistently applied to all years, unless
otherwise stated.

The financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis under the historic cost
convention, and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.

There were no amendments to accounting standards, or IFRS IC interpretations that are effective
for the period ended 31 March 2024 that have had a material impact on the company’s financial
statements.

GOING CONCERN

Since 2022 there has been industry wide industrial action by the 3 trade unions that represent XC
Trains’ collectively bargained employee groups in a dispute over jobs, pay and conditions. The
management of the business have prepared and deployed a dispute handling plan to mitigate
against the operational impacts and to ensure the business will not be adversely financially
impacted by this action. Under the terms of the NRC the company’s revenue risk is fully mitigated
and its earnings are limited to a fixed management fee and target-based performance payment for
operating the franchise during the NRC term. The NRC also provides for funding of capital
expenditure and for working capital cash flow support for duration of the franchise term, if required.

During 2024 XC Trains will begin the refurbishment of its entire fleet of rolling stock, and by June
2025 XC Trains will lease a further 12 5-car Voyager units to provide additional capacity and to
meet the demands of an enhanced timetable which includes the introduction of a new daily direct
service between Cardiff and Edinburgh from December 2024.

The NRC imposes a limit on the company’s earnings but provides a level of certainty and
significantly protects the company from loss for the remainder of the contract's term.

The directors have prepared the financial statements on a going concern basis as they expect that
the company will continue to operate for the foreseeable future. Due to the payment and funding
mechanism in place under the NRC the company remains confident that it will trade in line
expectations for the remainder of the franchise contract term.

On 19 October 2023, Deutsche Bahn AG announced an agreement had been signed under which
Arriva Limited, the intermediate parent company, would be sold to | Squared Capital. The
transaction completed on 31 May 2024. Management will continue to work with the new owners
going forward.

The Labour Government set out in the King’s Speech on 17 July 2024, its intention to legislate to
bring rail services back into public ownership through the ‘Passenger Railway Services (Public
Ownership) Bill.

In line with the UK Government's manifesto commitment, the Bill makes the necessary
amendments to the Railways Act 1993 to enable services currently contracted by the Secretary of
State of Transport to transfer to public ownership as those contracts end in accordance with their
terms, including through the use of contractual break points. The Bill also allows for existing
franchises to be extended by way of a further direct award.

Page 25

Notes to the financial statements
For the period ended 31 March 2024

1. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued)

GOING CONCERN (CONTINUED)

The UK Government has not at this stage set out a detailed schedule of expiry dates for existing
contracts and has indicated this will depend on the pace of progress of the Bill through Parliament.
The UK Government has made clear its expectation that all services will have transferred to Great
British Railways by the end of the current five-year Parliament.

The UK Government has also confirmed its intention to publish a Railways Bill to establish ‘Great
British Railways’ to create a unified rail system bringing track and train back together and planning
services on a whole-system basis, alongside other reforms including establishing a passenger
watchdog (Passenger Standards Authority).

The UK Government has confirmed that wherever there is a case that open access operators can
add value to the network, as assessed by the Office for Road and Rail, they will be able to.

XC Trains Limited is contracted by the Secretary of State of Transport under a National Rail
Contract with a four year core term to 15th October 2027 and a maximum possible term of eight
years. There is therefore no impact on the financial statements to 31st March 2024.

The directors acknowledge the appeal judgement dated 25 July 2024 in the case of NTL v Virgin
Media and will be reviewing the implications for XC Trains Limited in the coming months.

1.2 TURNOVER
* (a) Turnover - Passenger Rail

Turnover represents consideration received for passenger transport services with such amounts
agreed as attributable to the company by the income allocation systems of Rail Settlement Plan
Limited mainly in respect of passenger receipts.

(b) Turnover - Franchise receipts

Under the terms of the NRC the company is entitled to franchise receipts from a revenue risk
mitigation mechanism. Income is recognised when it is highly probable to be received in the period
that the company provides the contracted services, and is accrued where it is earned in an earlier
period to that in which it is billed or received in cash. Income is deferred where it is received in an
earlier period than that to which it relates. When franchise receipts includes an amount that is
variable, management use their best estimate based on the information available, such as stage of
negotiations, to estimate the value of such income to be recognised as revenue.

(c) Other income
Other income is derived from commissions, catering revenue, and other services excluding value
added tax and is recognised in the Statement of comprehensive income at the point in time that
that company satisfies its contractual obligations.

1.3 TANGIBLE ASSETS
Tangible assets are stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation. Cost includes the

original purchase price of the asset and the costs attributable to bringing the asset to its working
condition for its intended use.

or a ar re mocrr ete cee pete oe ce me ee ee eee eee

1.

Notes to the financial statements
For the period ended 31 March 2024

MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued)

1.3 TANGIBLE ASSETS (continued)

Depreciation is charged so as to allocate the cost of assets less their residual value over their
estimated useful lives, using the straight-line method.

Depreciation is provided on the following basis:

Plant and machinery, fixtures - 2 - 8 years
and fittings
Leasehold properties - Period of the lease

The assets’ residual values, useful lives and depreciation methods are reviewed, and adjusted
prospectively if appropriate, or if there is an indication of a significant change since the last
reporting date.

Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the proceeds with the carrying amount
and are recognised in profit or loss.

1.4 STOCKS

Stocks are.valued at the lower of cost, on a weighted average basis, and net realisable value after
making due allowance for obsolete and slow-moving stocks. Cost includes all direct costs and an
appropriate proportion of fixed and variable overheads. Net realisable value is the estimated selling
price in the ordinary course of business, less applicable variable selling expenses.

1.5 DEBTORS

Trade and other debtors are held with the intention to collect the contractual cash flows and are
initially measured at fair value and subsequently at amortised cost less any allowance for
impairment (where such allowance is material).

The simplified approach is used to measure expected lifetime credit loss allowances under IFRS 9
for trade and other debtors on a collective basis for any assets that are not considered to be
individually impaired. :

Allowances for expected credit losses on trade and other debtors are recognised only where they
are material.

1.6 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS

The company provides a range of benefits to employees, including annual bonus arrangements,
paid holiday arrangements and defined benefit and defined contribution pension plans. Short term
benefits, including holiday pay and other similar non-monetary benefits, are recognised as an
expense in the period in which the service is received and relates to staff costs for all employees
employed in fulfilling the company's operations.

Pensions
Certain employees of the company participate in funded defined benefit sections, which form part of
the overall Railways Pension Scheme (RPS).

1.

Notes to the financial statements
For the period ended 31 March 2024

MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued)

1.7

1.8

cere me eee wee et

1.6 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS (CONTINUED)

Pensions (continued)

The amounts recognised in the Balance sheet in respect of the defined benefit pension scheme is
the present value of the defined benefit obligation, at the balance sheet date, less the fair value of
the plan assets.

The balance disclosed for the RPS represents 60 per cent of the full balance of the relevant
sections of the RPS, in accordance with trustee guidelines which detail the scheme surpluses and
shortfalls are shared between the employer and scheme members. Only the net deficit or net
surplus that the company is obligated to fund or recover over the life of the franchise is recognised.
The balance sheet franchise adjustment reflects the amount of the deficit that the company does
not expect to fund over the life of the franchise. The net deficit, after adjusting for member share
and the franchise adjustment, represents the present value of the obligation of the company as at
that date.

- The defined benefit obligation is calculated using the projected unit credit method. Formal actuarial

valuations are carried out on a triennial basis, with updated calculations being prepared at each
balance sheet date by qualified independent actuaries. The present value of the defined benefit
obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of
high-quality corporate bonds and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the
related pension liability.

The cost of providing future benefits (service cost) is charged to the Statement of comprehensive
income as required. The Statement of comprehensive income includes a franchise adjustment to
current period costs with the net service cost (post franchise adjustment) reflecting the increase in
present value of the defined benefit obligation relating to the entity resulting from employee service
in the current period.

The return on scheme assets and interest obligation on scheme liabilities comprise a pension
finance adjustment which is included in other finance income/charges. Actuarial gains and losses
arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are credited or charged
to reserves other comprehensive income in the period they arise.

DIVIDENDS

Dividends are recognised in the company's financial statements in the period in which the dividends
are paid to the shareholder.

CREDITORS

Creditors are obligations to pay for goods / services that have been acquired in the ordinary course
of business.

Trade and other creditors, including amounts owed to group undertakings, are initially stated at fair
value and are measured subsequently at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Contract liabilities are included within creditors, with details disclosed within the note.

Accruals represent amounts for expenses that the company is due to pay to third parties in the
ordinary course of business which have been incurred, but not yet billed.

Notes to the financial statements
For the period ended 31 March 2024

1. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued)

1.9 CASH

Cash balances comprise cash in hand and ali bank balances and are stated in the balance sheet at
fair value. The company does not hold any cash equivalents.

1.10 FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARD 101 - REDUCED DISCLOSURE EXEMPTIONS

The company has taken advantage of the following disclosure exemptions under FRS 101:

. the requirements of IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures

. the requirements of paragraphs 91-99 of IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement

° the requirements of the second sentence of paragraph 110 and paragraphs 113(a), 114,
115, 118, 119(a) to (c), 120 to 127 and 129 of IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with
Customers

. the requirements of paragraph 52, the second sentence of paragraph 89, and paragraphs 90,

91 and 93 of IFRS 16 Leases. The requirements of paragraph 58 of IFRS 16, provided that
the disclosure of details in indebtedness relating to amounts payable after 5 years required
by company law is presented separately for lease liabilities and other liabilities, and in total
. the requirement in paragraph 38 of IAS 1 ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’ to present
comparative information in respect of:
- paragraph 79(a)(iv) of IAS 1;
- paragraph 73(e) of IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment;
- paragraph 118(e) of IAS 38 Intangible Assets;
° the requirements of paragraphs 10(d), 10(f), 16, 38A, 38B, 38C, 38D, 40A, 40B, 40C, 40D,
111 and 134-136 of IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements
. the requirements of IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows
. the requirements of paragraphs 30 and 31 of IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in
Accounting Estimates and Errors
. the requirements of paragraph 17 and 18A of IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures
. the requirements in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures to disclose related party transactions
entered into between two or more members of a group, provided that any subsidiary which is
a party to the transaction is wholly owned by such a member

The company is a qualifying entity for the purpose of FRS 101 and Note 24 gives details of the
company's ultimate parent and from where its consolidated financial statements, prepared in
accordance with IFRS, may be obtained.

FRS 101 sets out a reduced disclosure framework for a “qualifying entity” as defined in the standard
which permits a qualifying ‘entity to apply the recognition, measurement and disclosure
requirements of International Financial Reporting Standards, as adopted by the UK, but makes
amendments where necessary in order to comply with the Companies Act 2006.

The equivalent disclosures are included in the consolidated financial statements of the ultimate

parent company, Deutsche Bahn AG, in accordance with the application guidance of FRS 100
“Application of financial reporting requirements".

mrt te ee ee) ose ee a Steere ee

Notes to the financial statements
For the period ended 31 March 2024

1. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued)

1.11 CURRENT AND DEFERRED TAXATION

The tax charge or credit in the Statement of comprehensive income represents the sum of the
current tax charge or credit and the deferred tax charge or credit for the period. Tax is recognised
within the Statement of comprehensive income, except to the extent that it relates to items
recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in shareholders’ funds.

The current tax charge or credit is based on the taxable profit for the period. Taxable profit can
differ from the profit or loss before tax as reported in the statement of comprehensive income
because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years, or
that are never taxable or deductible. The company's liability or asset relating to current tax is
calculated using rates prevailing during the period. Where companies within the UK Group make
payments for tax losses where the amount paid exceeds the tax value of the losses, any excess is
reported as a movement through equity.

Deferred taxation is recognised on the temporary differences arising between the tax bases of
assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements. Deferred tax liabilities
are recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised for all
deductible temporary timing differences to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be
available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.

The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to
the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or
part of the asset to be recovered.

Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability
is settled or the asset is realised, using rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at
the balance sheet date. Deferred tax is charged or credited in the Statement of comprehensive
income, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case
deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset
current taxation assets against current taxation liabilities and when the deferred taxation assets and
liabilities relate to taxation levied by the same taxation authority, and the company intends to settle
its current taxation assets and liabilities on a net basis.

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.

1.12 PROVISIONS FOR LIABILITIES

Provisions are made where an event has taken place that gives the company a legal or constructive
obligation that probably requires settlement by a transfer of economic benefit, and a reliable
estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.

Provisions are charged as an expense to the Statement of comprehensive income in the period that
the company becomes aware of the obligation, and are measured at the best estimate at the
Balance sheet date of the expenditure required to settle the obligation, taking into account relevant
risks and uncertainties. When payments are made, they are charged to the provision carried in the
Balance sheet.

4.

" MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued)

Notes to the financial statements
For the period ended 31 March 2024

1.13 LEASES

For lease contracts within the scope of IFRS 16, a lease liability and corresponding right-of-use
asset are recognised at the lease commencement date.

The lease liability is initially measured at the present value of future lease payments, discounted
using the incremental borrowing rate of the company (or rate implicit in the lease, if available).
Future lease payments include fixed and variable payments, amounts repayable under a residual
value guarantee, and the exercise price of future purchase options the company is reasonably
certain to exercise (where applicable), Lease payments to be made under reasonably certain
extension options are also included in the measurement of the liability. The liability is subsequently
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, with the financing cost recognised
within ‘Interest payable and similar charges’.

Corresponding right-of-use assets are measured at the initial amount of the lease liability, adjusted
for any lease payments prepaid at the commencement date, initial direct costs, lease incentives,
and an estimate of costs to dismantle or remove the underlying asset. Subsequently, the right-of-
use asset is depreciated on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Where an impairment
indicator is identified the right-of-use asset is adjusted by any associated impairment losses. The
right-of-use asset is also adjusted for any remeasurements of the lease liability.

For leases of rolling stock the company has assessed that the substance of both the NRC and
OCFA is a sub lease agreement with the DfT for the rolling stock of consistent duration as the head
leases with the lessors. The arrangements have been accounted as a finance sub-leases as the
DfT directs the control of, and benefits from right-of-use of, these assets throughout the lease term.
Consequently, the company has not recognised right-of-use tangible assets for leased rolling stock,
instead recognising finance lease receivables initially at the net investment value of the leases. The
receivables are subsequently adjusted for payments received from the DfT, which are apportioned
between a reduction in the net investment in the lease and finance income recognised within
‘interest receivable and similar income’ over the lease term.

The company has elected to apply the exemption included within IFRS 16 for short-term leases
(lease terms of less than +2 months from the commencement date), and low value leases (asset
values less than €5,000). The lease payments associated with these leases are recognised as an
expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term.

1.14 SHARES

Proceeds from the issuance of shares are accounted as equity (forming part of Total shareholders’
funds) only to the extent that they include no contractual obligation upon the company to deliver
cash or other financial assets to another party (or exchange financial assets or financial liabilities
with another party on unfavourable terms). Where this condition is not satisfied, the proceeds of
issuance are accounted as financial liabilities, initially measured at fair value and subsequently at
amortised cost.

Refer to note 21 for cancellation of shares in the current financial period.

XC TRAINS LIMITED .

Notes to the financial statements
For the period ended 31 March 2024

JUDGEMENTS IN APPLYING ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND KEY SOUCES OF ESTIMATION
UNCERTAINTY

Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other
factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the
circumstances. Application of certain company accounting policies required management to make
judgements, assumptions and estimates concerning the future as detailed below.

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with FRS 101 requires management to make
estimates and judgements in the application of accounting policies that affect the reported amounts of
assets, liabilities, income and expense. Estimates and judgements are based on historical experience
and management's best knowledge of the amount. Due to the inherent uncertainty in making estimates
and judgements, actual results in future periods may be based on amounts which differ from those
estimates.

2.1 Critical judgements in applying accounting policies

The following are the critical judgements that have been made in the process of applying the company’s
accounting policies, apart from those involving estimations, that have the most significant effect on the
financial statements.

Franchise adjustments to defined benefit pension scheme obligations

The company’s accounting policy for RPS defined benefit pension schemes is to recognise franchise
adjustments, to ensure the net surplus or deficit recorded in the balance sheet reflects only the share of
the net deficit or surplus that the company is obligated to fund or recover over the life of the franchise
contract. See Note 1.6 for further details of the accounting policy and Note 22 for the values of the
adjustments.

Term of lease contracts and accounting for rolling stock leases

In determining the lease term at commencement of a lease (or the remaining lease term on adoption of
IFRS 16) management considers the terms of the contracts and all facts and circumstances of the
company’s operations, including the expected duration of the franchise contract, that create an
economic incentive to exercise an extension option, or not exercise a termination option (where
applicable).

Extension options (or periods after termination options) are only included in the lease term if the lease is
reasonably certain to be extended (or not terminated).

The majority of the company’s leases on adoption of IFRS 16 relate to rolling stock used to deliver
franchise services, with lease terms aligned to the end date of the franchise.

The company has assessed that the substance of the franchise agreement is a sub-lease with the DfT
for its rolling stock leases and, consequently, the company has not recognised right-of-use tangible
assets for leased rolling stock, instead recognising finance lease receivables. See Note 1.13 for further
details of the accounting policy for rolling stock leases.

Page 32

Notes to the financial statements
For the period ended 31 March 2024

2.2 Critical assumptions and key sources of estimation uncertainty

The following areas are the critical assumptions concerning the future and the key sources of estimation
uncertainty in the reporting period. These areas may have a significant risk of causing a material
adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year:

Defined benefit pension scheme obligation
The company has an obligation to pay pension benefits to certain employees. The cost of these benefits

and the present value of the obligation depend on a number of factors, with those most likely to lead to a
material change in the obligation being; life expectancy, future salary increases, inflation, future pension
increases, and the discount rate on corporate bonds. Management estimate these factors in determining
the net pensions obligation in the balance sheet. The assumptions reflect historical experience and
current trends. See Note 22 for the sensitivity analysis of potential impacts to the defined benefit pension
obligations recorded at the balance sheet date for changes to assumptions for those factors.

GENERAL INFORMATION

The company is a private limited company, limited by shares and incorporated and domiciled in England,
the United Kingdom.

The registered company number is 4402048 and the address of the registered office is 1 Admiral Way,
Doxford International Business Park, Sunderland, SR3 3XP.
TURNOVER

An analysis of turnover by class of business is as follows:

, 15month Year ended

period 31

ended 31 December

March 2024 2022

£000 £000

Passenger income 555,895 369,405
Franchise receipts 30,637 138,779
Other income 3,087 3,078

589,619 511,262

All turnover arose within the United Kingdom.


Notes to the financial statements
For the period ended 31 March 2024

5. OPERATING PROFIT
The operating profit is stated after charging:

15 month Year ended

period 31

ended 31 December

March 2024 2022

£000 £000

Depreciation of tangible assets 495 465

Rail access charges 169,573 135,872

Staff Costs (Note 8) 152,655 113,428

Cost of stocks recognised as an expense 58,955 59,104

6. OTHER FINANCE INCOME / (CHARGES)

15 month

period Year ended

ended 31 31

March December

2024 2022

£000 £000

Interest income on pension plan assets (Note 22) 19,319 6,706

Interest on pension liabilities (Note 22) (19,528) (11,118)

Interest on rail franchise adjustment (Note 22) 209 4,412

7. Auditors’ remuneration

The company paid the following amounts to its auditors in respect of the audit of the financial statements
and for other services provided to the company:

15month Year ended

period 31
ended December
March 2024 2022
£000 £000
Fees payable for the audit of the company's annual financial statements 370 159
Inn wr tt tire eee eee ee ee : wae gee ee pee .
Page 34 °

1

ee ee ores
ae]

ce ae a ne Par aes

7 SDS er se meee ot

Lot bee te ere

a

oer TT

Notes to the financial statements
For the period ended 31 March 2024

STAFF COSTS
Staff costs, including directors’ remuneration, were as follows:

15month Year ended

period 31

ended December

March 2024 2022

£000 £000

Wages and salaries 128,779 95,080
Social security costs 14,268 10,577
9,608 7,771

Other pension costs (Note 22)

152,655 113,428

The average monthly number of employees, including the directors, during the period was as follows:

15month Year ended

period 31
ended December
March 2024 2022
No. No.
Drivers, train crew and operations 1,712 1,698
Administration 154 162
1,866 1,860
Vente g gem e e  ee eeeee ee ee eee

. j _ >, Page 35

a nee wre e _

7

10.

"Notes to the financial statements
For the period ended 31 March 2024

DIRECTORS’ EMOLUMENTS

15 month
period
ended

March 2024
£000

Directors' emoluments 688
Company contributions to pension schemes : 105

793

Year ended

31

December

2022
£000

680
95

775

During the period retirement benefits were accruing to 5 directors (2022: 5) in respect of defined benefit
pension schemes and 1 director (2022: 1) in respect of defined contribution pension schemes.

The highest paid director received remuneration of £337,000 (2022: £293,000).

The value of the company’s contributions paid to a defined benefit pension scheme in respect of the

highest paid director amounted to £41,000 (2022: £33,000).

INTEREST RECEIVABLE AND SIMILAR INCOME

15 month
period
ended

March 2024
£000

Bank interest receivable 2,982
Interest on lease receivables 7,616

10,598

Year ended

31

December

2022
£000

1,109
636

1,745

11.

12.

Notes to the financial statements
For the period ended 31 March 2024

INTEREST PAYABLE AND SIMILAR EXPENSES

15 month
period
ended

March 2024
£000

Other interest payable and similar charges 20
Interest on lease liabilities , : 7,858

7,878

Year ended
31
December
2022

£000

512
652

1,164

Other interest payable and similar charges are relating to a performance bond between Deutsche Bahn

AG and the Secretary of State.

TAX ON PROFIT

15 month
period
ended

March 2024
£000
Corporation tax
Current tax on profits for the period / year 3,898
Adjustments in respect of prior years , (34)
3,864
Total current tax charge 3,864
Deferred tax .
Origination and reversal of timing differences 354
Adjustments in respect of prior years . 46
Total deferred tax charge (Note 19) 400

Tax on profit 4,264

Year ended
31
December
2022

£000

1,262
214

1,476

1,476

367
(280)

87

1,563


Fo eee ee neers ee wR en eee ee ee he eee

12.

13.

Notes to the financial statements
For the period ended 31 March 2024

TAX ON PROFIT (continued)

Factors affecting tax charge for the period/year

The tax assessed for the period/year is higher than (2022 - higher than) the standard rate of corporation

tax of 23.8% (2022 - 19%). The differences are explained below:

Profit before tax

Profit on ordinary activities multiplied by standard rate of corporation tax in
the UK of 23.8% (2022 - 19.0%)

Effects of:

Adjustments in respect of prior years
Impact of rate change on deferred tax :

Total tax charge for the period/year

Factors that may affect future tax charges

15 month
period
ended

March 2024
£000

17,796

4,236

11
17

4,264

Effective from 1 April 2023, the UK corporate tax rate increased from 19% to 25%.

Year ended
31
December
2022

£000

8,109

1,541

(66)
88

1,563

On 20 June 2023, Finance (No.2) Act 2023 was substantively enacted in the UK, introducing a global
minimum effective tax rate of 15%. The legislation implements a domestic top up tax and a multinational
top up tax, effective for accounting periods starting on or after 31 December 2023. The Arriva group is
reviewing these rules to understand any potential impacts. The company does not account for deferred
tax on top up taxes and therefore, if these rules had been substantively enacted on the balance sheet

date, there would have been no deferred tax accounting impact.

DIVIDENDS

Dividends paid on ordinary shares (32.45 pence per share)

- mee ae? eee ow a rn “
- ee i wot te temad

15 month
period
ended

March 2024
£000

7,302

Year ended
31
December
2022

£000

Page 38

Notes to the financial statements
For the period ended 31 March 2024

14. TANGIBLE ASSETS

Plant and
machinery,
fixtures and Leasehold
fittings properties Total
£000 £000 £000
Cost
At 1 January 2023 1,627 2,920 ; 4,547
Additions : 5,027 5,027
At 31 March 2024 1,627 7,947 9,574
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2023. 1,627 2,665 4,292
Charge for year - 495 495
At 31 March 2024 1,627 3,160 4,787
Net book value
At 31 March 2024 - 4,787 4,787
At 31 December 2022 - 255 255
Leasehold properties comprise right-of-use assets recognised in accordance with IFRS 16.
15. STOCKS
31
31 March December
2024 2022
£000 £000
Raw materials and consumables 239 295
Finished goods and goods for resale 67 162

lon mgyd cto ot ere +


Notes to the financial statements
For the period ended 31 March 2024

16. Debtors
: . 31
31 March December
2024 2022

£000 £000
Due after more than one year :

» Amounts recoverable on long-term contracts 222,473 -

222,473 -

31
31.March December
2024 2022
£000 £000

Due within one year
Trade debtors 32,189 24,375
Amounts owed by group undertakings - 43
Other debtors 16,689 9,950
Prepayments and accrued income . . 60,956 26,524
Amounts recoverable on long-term contracts 26,708 33,221
Deferred taxation 1,340 1,740

137,882 95,853

All amounts owed by group undertakings are unsecured, interest free and repayable on demand.
Included within prepayments and accrued income is £20,870,000 (2022: £15,229,000) relating to-

contract assets under IFRS 15. The increase in contract assets is attributable to unsettled performance
payments due under the franchise agreement.

a eee ee

32 FT ST oe tee Bt craat veatt were eres Artie les gee ne
Loe ° : : j j Page 40
a et. te ee ae sora wae - La Po .

Sete. Coe de


17.

18.

Notes to the financial statements
For the period ended 31 March 2024

CREDITORS: Amounts falling due within one year

As restated*

31 March December

2024 2022

£000 £000

Trade creditors , 27,611 25,090
Amounts owed to group undertakings 22,886 15,519
Corporation tax 3,898 1,261
Other taxation and social security 2,619 2,682
Lease liabilities . 27,626 33,438
Other creditors 6,980 5,467
Accruals and deferred income 411,214 115,882

202,834 199,339

All amounts owed to group undertakings are unsecured, interest free and repayable on demand.

Accruals and deferred income includes deferred revenues under contracts with customers of £Nil (2022:
£802,000) relating to season tickets. All of the deferred season ticket revenues at 1 January 2023 were
recognised in revenue in the period to 31 March 2024.

*An amount of £24,416,000 has been identified within Accruals and deferred income that was incorrectly
classified in the previous period. As a result of this, the comparative numbers have been restated to
reclassify an amount of £17,404,000 to Trade Creditors and an amount of £7,012,000 to Amounts owed
to group undertakings.

CREDITORS: Amounts falling due after more than one year

31

31 March December
2024 2022
£000 £000

Lease liabilities , . 226,303 -

226,303 -

Lease liabilities falling due after more than one year include liabilities of £97,723,000 (2022: £Nil) falling
due after more than five years.

The total cash outflow for leases was £53,998,000 (2022: £43,252,000)


Notes to the financial statements
For the period ended 31 March 2024

19. DEFERRED TAX ASSET

31 March 37 December

2024 2022
£000 £000
Deferred tax asset at beginning of period / year : 1,740 1,827
Charged to profit for the financial period / year (Note 12) (400) (87)
Deferred tax asset at end of period / year 1,340 1,740
The deferred tax asset balance is made up as follows:
31
31 March December
2024 2022
£000 £000
Accounting depreciation in excess of capital allowances 1,340 1,740

1,340 1,740

20. PROVISIONS FOR LIABILITIES

31 March
2024
£000

At 1 January 2022 . 13,651
Additions 8,952

At 31 March 2024 22,603

Provisions for liabilities represent best estimates of future asset retirement obligations arising from
existing contractual obligations.

TSE RET OT cere te et meee goo eee ot ree ee ee ee ee,

Page 42


21.

22.

XC TRAINS LIMITED

Notes to the financial statements
For the period ended 31 March 2024

CALLED UP SHARE CAPITAL

31
31 March December
2024 2022
£000 £000
Authorised

25,000,000 (2022 - 25,000,000) Ordinary shares of £1.00 each 25,000 25,000

Allotted, called up and fully paid
2,000,000 (2022 - 22,500,000) Ordinary shares of £1.00 each 2,000 22,500

During the period 20,500,002 of issued ordinary shares were cancelled thereby reducing the balance of
share capital from £22,500,002 to £2,000,000. £20,500,002 was then repaid on 29 December 2023 to
the company's parent Arriva UK Trains Limited.

PENSION COMMITMENTS

Certain employees of XC Trains Limited participate in funded defined benefit sections, which form part
of the overall Railways Pension Scheme (‘RPS’). The directors believe that separate consideration
should be given to the RPS under IAS 19 ‘Employee benefits’ (revised 2011) as the company has no
rights or obligations in respect of the scheme following the expiry of the franchise. This is accounted for
by way of a franchise adjustment, which decreased from £6,982,000 surplus at 31 December 2022 to
£22,437,000 deficit at 31 March 2024.

From 16 October 2016, XC Trains Limited began operating the franchise initially under a Direct Award
for a three year period until 12 October 2019 with an option for the Department for Transport (DfT) to
extend this for a further year at their discretion. The DfT exercised this option on 28 June 2019 and has
subsequently entered into a new franchise agreement to continue operating the franchise until 15
October 2031. As a result, the company recognises a franchise adjustment through the statement of
comprehensive income as outlined in Notes 1.6 and 2.1, in line with industry practice.

The calculations used to assess the IAS 19 ‘Employee benefits’ (revised 2011) liabilities of the
company's sections of the RPS are based on the most recent actuarial valuations, updated by qualified
independent actuaries to 31 March 2024. The scheme's assets are stated at their market value at 31
March 2024.

The following financial assumptions have been made for the 15 month period to 31 March 2024 and
year to 31 December 2022:

2024 2022

% %

Rate of increase in salaries 3.2 3.3
Rate of increase in pensions in payment 2.2 2.3
Rate of increase in deferred pensions 2.2 2.3
Discount rate 5.0 4.8
Inflation assumption 3.2 3.3

Page 43

ee eee, nope tp ete ge ne te tr ee ere ee

Notes to the financial statements
For the period ended 31 March 2024

22. PENSION COMMITMENTS (continued)

The weighted average life expectancy for mortality tables to determine benefit obligations for the 15
month period to 31 March 2024 and year to 31 December 2022:

2024 2022

: Years Years

Member age 65 (current life expectancy) Male 20 21
Female 23 23

Member age 45 (life expectancy at age 65) Male 22 22
Female 24 24

The fair value of the assets in the RPS sections and the expected rate of return, the present value of the
related liabilities and the resulting deficit at 31 March 2024 and 31 December 2022 are:

2024 2022

£000 £000
Equities 557,904 507,099
Other 32,411 37,718
Total market value of assets 590,315 544,817
Present value of scheme liabilities (553,104) (556,454)
Net pension surplus / (deficit) 37,211 (11,637)
(Surplus) / deficit relating to scheme members (14,884) 4,655
Rail franchise adjustment (22,437) 6,982
Net pension balance — (110) |

The balance disclosed for the RPS represents 60 per cent of the full deficit of the relevant sections of
the RPS, in accordance with trustee guidelines which detail how the scheme surpluses and shortfalls are
shared between the employer and scheme members and is stated after the recognition of a franchise
adjustment as detailed above.

Analysis of amounts (charged)/credited to operating profit for the 15 month period to 31 March 2024 and
year to 31 December 2022:

2024 2022
£000 £000
Current service costs . (14,113) (24,940)
Franchise adjustment to service cost 5,106 17,963
Pension administration costs - ‘ (601) (794)
Total operating charge (Note 8) (9,608) (7,771)

Te Lome t = chow pc te tte oto

leee ee ae... Page 44

” wee

wee wee ae ee ~


22.

Notes to the financial statements
For the period ended 31 March 2024

PENSION COMMITMENTS (continued)

Analysis of the amount credited / (charged) to other finance income for the 15 month period to 31 March

2024 and year to 31 December 2022:

2024
£000
Interest income on plan assets . 19,319
Interest on liabilities (19,528)
Interest on rail franchise adjustment , 209

Other finance income -

2022
£000
6,706
(11,118)
4,412

Analysis of the amount recognised in other comprehensive income for the 15 month period to 31 March

2024 and year to 31 December 2022:

2024
£000
Difference between expected and actual return on assets 12,402
Effect of changing the actuarial assumptions 17,116
Rail franchise adjustment (29,628)
Actuarial loss (110)

2022
£000
(28,835)
262,041
(233,206)

An analysis in the movements in the present value of defined benefit obligations for the 15 month period

to 31 March 2024 and year to 31 December 2022 is as follows:

2024

£000
At start of year . (556,454)
Current service cost (14,113)
Franchise adjustment to service cost - 5,106
Interest cost* (32,547)
Past service cost : -
Benefits paid ‘ 22,221
Member contributions paid {6,245)
Actuarial loss / (gain)* 28,928
At end of period / year ‘ . (553,104)

. Page45 .

2022
£000
(980,406)
(24,940)
17,963
(18,529)
16,783

. (4,589)
437,264

(556,454)


22.

Notes to the financial statements
For the period ended 31 March 2024

PENSION COMMITMENTS (continued)

An analysis of the movements in the fair value of scheme assets for the 15 month period to-31 March
2024 and year to 31 December 2022 is as follows:

2024 2022

: £000 £000

At start of year "544,817 587,446
Interest income on plan assets* : , 32,198 11,176
Employer contributions 9,608 7,772
Member contributions 6,245 4,589
Benefits paid (22,221) (16,783)
Return on plan assets (excluding interest)* 20,669 (48,058)
Administration expenses* ‘ {1,001) (1,325)
At end of period / year 590,315 544,817

The actual gain on plan assets* was £52,868,000 (2022: £36,882,000).
* Before RPS shared cost adjustment.

The movement in the present value of defined benefit obligations and in the fair value of the scheme
assets do not take into account the shared cost nature of the RPS. The statement of comprehensive
income and the statement of other comprehensive income include 60 per cent of the relevant RPS
amounts. - ‘

History of experience of gains and losses for the 15 month period to 31 March 2024 and year to 31
December 2022:

"2024 2022
Experience adjustments on scheme assets:
- Amounts (£000) 12,402 (28,835)
- Percentage of scheme assets (%) 3.5 8.8
Experience adjustments on scheme liabilities:
- Amounts (£000) 25,873 188,354
- Percentage of scheme assets (%) 7.8 56.4

The company expects to contribute £9,317,000 to its defined benefit pension scheme in 2025.
Contributions are paid to the scheme at rates determined in conjunction with the actuaries and trustees
as part of the actuarial valuation process. ,

poo ee nee * - . — ve ee ena ToT 2 rae tae ™ Ze

$2. 7. > =

Notes to the financial statements
For the period ended 31 March 2024

22. PENSION COMMITMENTS (continued)

Cumulative actuarial gains and losses recognised in equity at 31 March and 31 December:

2024 2022

; £000 £000

At 1 January 2,977 2,977
Actuarial loss recognised in the period / year : (110) -

At 31 March / December 2,867 2,977

The sensitivity analysis for the decrease/ (increase) in defined benefit obligation balance is as follows at
31 March and 31 December:

2024 2022

£000 £000
Calculated with +1% discount rate 84,261 89,577
Calculated with -1% discount rate (109,338) (117,458)
Calculated with +1% inflation rate (104,849) (114,255)
Calculated with -1% inflation rate 83,851 89,434
Calculated with +0.5% compensation increase * (14,519) (16,606)
Calculated with +0.5% pension increase rate (32,236) -
Calculated with increased expectation of life of 1 year (16,593) (17,250)

At 31 March 2024, the weighted average duration/maturity of the defined benefit obligation was 17
years.

‘ ‘
cote ogee here te eee ee eee er ee tee eee oe eo smite geet ape

sue


Notes to the financial statements
For the period ended 31 March 2024

23. POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS

On 19 October 2023, Deutsche Bahn AG announced an agreement had been signed under which Arriva
Limited, the intermediate parent company, would be sold to | Squared Capital. The transaction °
completed on 31 May 2024. Management will continue to work with the new owners going forward.

The Labour Government set out in the King’s Speech on 17 July 2024, its intention to legislate to bring
rail services back into public ownership through the ‘Passenger Railway Services (Public Ownership)
Bill.

In line with the UK Government's manifesto commitment, the Bill makes the necessary amendments to
the Railways Act 1993 to enable services currently contracted by the Secretary of State of Transport to
transfer to public ownership as those contracts end in accordance with their terms, including through the
use of contractual break points. The Bill also allows for existing franchises to be extended by way of a
further direct award.

The UK Government has not at this stage set out a detailed schedule of expiry dates for existing
contracts and has indicated this will depend on the pace of progress of the Bill through Parliament. The
UK Government has made clear its expectation that all services will have transferred to Great British
Railways by the end of the current five-year Parliament.

The UK Government has also confirmed its intention to publish a Railways Bill to establish ‘Great British
Railways’ to create a unified rail system bringing track and train back together and planning services on
a whole-system basis, alongside other reforms including establishing a passenger watchdog (Passenger
Standards Authority).

The UK Government has confirmed that wherever there is a case that open access operators can add
value to the network, as assessed by the Office for Road and Rail, they will be able to.

XC Trains Limited is contracted by the Secretary of State of Transport under a National Rail Contract
with a four year core term to 15th October 2027 and a maximum possible term of eight years. There is
therefore no impact on the financial statements to 31st March 2024.

The directors acknowledge the appeal judgement dated 25 July 2024 in the case of NTL v Virgin Media
and will be reviewing the implications for XC Trains Limited in the coming months.

24. ULTIMATE PARENT UNDERTAKING AND CONTROLLING PARTY
The immediate parent company is Arriva UK Trains Limited.
The ultimate parent company and ultimate controlling party at 31 March 2024 was Deutsche Bahn AG, a
company registered in Germany, which has prepared group financial statements incorporating the
results of the company. Copies of these financial statements can be obtained from Potsdamer Platz 2,

10785 Berlin.

Deutsche Bahn AG was the largest and smallest group to consolidate the financial statements of XC
Trains Limited. °

24.

XC TRAINS LIMITED |

Notes to the financial statements
For the period ended 31 March 2024

ULTIMATE PARENT UNDERTAKING AND CONTROLLING PARTY (continued)

From 31 May 2024, the ultimate parent of the company is ISQ Global Fund Ill GP, LLC (“Fund III GP”),
which serves as the main general partner of [SQ Global Infrastructure Fund Ill (“Fund Ill"), a private
equity fund. Fund Ill is the ultimate economic owner of the Company. ISQ Global Fund Ill Lux GP,
S.a.rl. (“Lux GP”) is the managing general partner for the Luxembourg limited partnerships within Fund
Ill. Fund Ill GP is a limited liability company incorporated and registered with the Delaware Secretary of
State in Delaware, U.S.A. (with registered number 7893192). Its registered address is at c/o Corporation
Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington, DE 19808, U.S.A. Lux GP is a Luxembourg limited
liability company registered with the Luxembourg Trade and Companies Register under number B
239.493. Its registered address is at 6 Rue Eugéne Ruppert, 2453, Luxembourg, Grand Duchy of

Luxembourg.

There is not considered to be any ultimate controlling party of the entity.

Page 49

