Charity registration number 281797

Company registration number 01547097 (England and Wales)

YOUNG GLOUCESTERSHIRE LIMITED
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

*ADGYOJ2B*

A42 30/11/2024 #1
COMPANIES HOUSE

SATURDAY

YOUNG GLOUCESTERSHIRE LIMITED

LEGAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE INFORMATION

Trustees Mr M. Sheridan
Mr M. Moule
Ms C. Stallard
Mr S. McKeag
Mr P. Holroyd
Ms C. O'Donoghue
Mr S. Titterton
Mr G. Leon
Mr J. Tabor (Appointed 24 October 2023)
Ms S. Danson (Appointed 24 October 2023)

Key Management Personnel

Chief Executive Officer Ms T. Clark
Chief Operating Officer Ms A. Wynn
Finance Manager Ms L. Howes
Senior Managers Mr T. Saunders
Ms E. Blakelock
Mr T. Jones
Ms I. Sime
Ms M Watkins
Mrs C Farman

Charity number 281797
Company number 01547097

Registered office The Old Dock Office
Commercial Road
Gloucester
Gloucestershire
GL1 2EB

Auditor Pitt Godden & Taylor LLP
Unit 3 Ambrose House
Meteor Court
Barnett Way
Barnwood
Gloucester
GL4 3GG

Bankers HSBC Bank pic
The Cross
Gloucester
GL1 2AP

Solicitors Willans LLP
28 Imperial Square
Cheltenham
Glos
GL50 1 RH


YOUNG GLOUCESTERSHIRE LIMITED

LEGAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE INFORMATION

Investment advisors Crowe Financial Planning UK Ltd
St James's House
St James's Square
Cheltenham
Gloucestershire
GL50 3PR

Investment advisors LGT Wealth Management LLP
14 Cornhill
London
EC3V 3NR


YOUNG GLOUCESTERSHIRE LIMITED

CONTENTS

Trustees’ report

Statement of trustees’ responsibilities

Independent auditor's report

Statement of financial activities

Balance sheet

Statement of cash flows

Notes to the financial statements

11

12-14

15

16

17

18-40

YOUNG GLOUCESTERSHIRE LIMITED

TRUSTEES’ REPORT (INCLUDING DIRECTORS’ REPORT)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

The trustees present their annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2024.

The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the accounting policies set out in note 1 to the
financial statements and comply with the charity's Memorandum and Articles of Association, the Companies Act
2006 and "Accounting and Reporting by Charities: Statement of Recommended Practice applicable to charities
preparing their accounts in accordance with the Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic
of Iretand (FRS 102) (effective 1 January 2019)".

Objectives and activities
Young Gloucestershire ("YG") is a countywide youth work charity in Gloucestershire.

The objectives, for which the charity was established, as described in its governing document, are: ‘helping
young people to develop their physical, mental and spiritual capabilities or to provide such other help and support
to young people as the Trustees see fit, including the relief of poverty, the advancement of education, the
advancement of health, the advancement of citizenship and community development, the advancement of the
arts, culture, heritage or science, the advancement of amateur sport, the advancement of human rights, the
advancement of equality and diversity, the relief of those in need by reason of youth, age, ill-health, disability or
other disadvantage, and such other purposes recognised from time to time by law as charitable.’

This can be summed up in the phrase ‘inspiring young people’.

YG's Vision is:
For young people to have the confidence, motivation and skills to improve their lives.

Our Mission:

We work to achieve this vision by creating opportunities that educate, inform, and inspire by;
+ Providing training for young people to take the next step;
+ Working with young people to make informed decisions by offering practical support;
« Working with communities to provide opportunities for young people.

Our Values:
: + Participation: Young people are at the heart of our service.
+ Flexibility: We respond to the changing needs of young people.
+ Equality: We support all young people to reach their potential no matter their circumstances.
+ Partnership: We value working with like-minded communities and organisations to achieve our vision.

Young Gloucestershire is the local association for both UK Youth and the countywide delivery partner for Prince's
Trust Teams.

How Young Gloucestershire's activities deliver public benefit

The trustees have paid due regard to guidance issued by the Charity Commission in deciding what activities the
charity should undertake.

The charity aims to create opportunities that educate, help and inspire young people. The projects are targeted to
help any young person in need with no discrimination regarding race, background, education or ability.

No charge is made to the young people being assisted, a fee may be charged to another organisation.

Young Gloucestershire’s areas of work in 2023/24 focused on supporting young people’s mental health
challenges, gain the skills needed to find meaningful employment, support those on the edges of the criminal
justice system, and to wrap around and support the whole family unit. Over this period, we have continued our
growth and developed several new services to respond to the needs of young people in the county.
There continues to be a specific focus on our mental health services and support for young people to re-engage
in education, as well as mentoring programmes aimed at young people who are considered at risk.

YOUNG GLOUCESTERSHIRE LIMITED

TRUSTEES’ REPORT (CONTINUED)(INCLUDING DIRECTORS' REPORT)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

WHO WE HAVE SUPPORTED
f GENDER : Oo : \
eo2cece ecce 3° ee
(oo eaaeeasa Wale eeaa Gender ove rae a |
~ w,
AGE

15-19

Year olds Over 25's

\ Under 10's

|

i
}
| 10-14 20-25

Not
Year olds Year olds provided
\ ETHNICITY

61% White

5% Dual Heritage
1% Black/ Black British
1% Asian/ British Asian
4% Other

28% Not Recorded

SOURCE OF REFERRALS

22% Education
22% Mental Health Services
15% Self-referral

N% Social Services

8% Parent/Guardian

0.5% Police LOCALITY
GP 3%Not provided/ out of “Qa

Voluntary/Charity Sector
Housing

aa

ch

ao”

16% coterids

a meg


YOUNG GLOUCESTERSHIRE LIMITED

TRUSTEES' REPORT (CONTINUED)(INCLUDING DIRECTORS" REPORT)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

Items of note in the 2023\24 period were:

Young Gloucestershire strategically merged with sister charity Infobuzz (Family Services) on 30 October
2023 to strengthen and grow the wrap-around support for the whole family unit. We have successfully
operated as one entity for the remainder of the financial year.

Our Mental Health Services have continued to grow providing additional mental health programmes and
increased reach. A programme of note is providing Youth Workers to support the mental health of young
people on paediatric ward of Gloucester Royal Hospital.

Mentoring services have increased with specialist mentoring supporting for those with involvement in
crime, CSE, high adverse childhood experiences (ACES). A new programme of note is the location-
based Tewkesbury District mentoring programme supporting young people facing challenges.

Our support for young people back into education has increased with the addition of a Section 19
programme, the programme seeks to support young people who are not attending school due to a range
of complex issues.

During the year, the charity worked with approximately 3,694 young people through one-to-one
initiatives providing intensive support with staff delivering 15,831 sessions totalling 13,493 hours of
support.

In addition, through our group work programmes, we worked with an additional 1,010 young people and
families, delivering holiday camps and providing community, wellbeing and NEET support.

Our overall total of young people worked with during the year was 4,704.

5,190 hours spent outside of sessions supporting people, calling social workers, and parents.


YOUNG GLOUCESTERSHIRE LIMITED

TRUSTEES’ REPORT (CONTINUED)(INCLUDING DIRECTORS' REPORT)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

@®

2023/24

4,704 sipotedtyve
3,694 crereronesentces  eneens
1 9 O01 O soproted ath aroun work
15,831 sircesiyve
13,493 isivecsnyye
55190 recricoutsideot sossons

161 Young people who have been involved in
the care system were supported.


YOUNG GLOUCESTERSHIRE LIMITED

TRUSTEES’ REPORT (CONTINUED)(INCLUDING DIRECTORS' REPORT)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

Education and Development Highlights

Our highlights include the further development of 1-to-1 support for young people through our Transition Chat,
Steps and Evolve projects which work to re-engage young people back into education or find successful
pathways once they have completed school.

We have also increased our support for NEET young people through our YG Hub, Apprenticeships, Rise and
ESHO projects to help them seek meaningful employment.

Our Team programme continues to offer a pathway for NEET young people to develop their skills and move to
EET status, and we have also introduced housing support and environmental elements to our work with NEET
young people to help them find their way forward.

Community and Mentoring Highlights
Our highlights for this department include the expansion of our work in drugs and alcohol support for young
people between the ages of 11-25.

We have successfully secured the future of our Canine Assisted Intervention work that sees two therapy dogs
work with young people with low level anxiety and includes the chance to work towards a pet care qualification.

We have increased our support to include mentoring within the Tewkesbury district and offer county wide 1-to-1
support to young people experiencing Online Harms.

Therapeutic Services Highlights
Highlights for Therapeutic Services include the introduction of a Group work programme seeking to reduce the
CAMHS waiting list and provide timely support to young people through group intervention.

We have successfully piloted and extended our Bluebells programme which provides early intervention Mental!
health support to young people and is in partnership with Cheltenham and Forest of Dean primary care networks.

Our biggest highlight of the year was launching our programme with Gloucester Hospital Project that helps
support young people admitted to hospital facing challenges with mental health and provides one to one youth
work and community support on returning home. The programme has already had a massive impact on the ward
with improved outcomes for young people

Fundraising

This year was a stable year for Young Gloucestershire, with existing contracts renewed or extended and several
new contracts secured. We are pleased that at a time of high need, the charity has continued to be able to
expand in response to the demand in the community.

Young Gloucestershire employs a Head of Income Generation, Communications and Data, one full-time
Fundraising Manager whose primary focus is applying for grants from charitable foundations and running
fundraising events, and one part-time Business Development Manager who oversees research, contracts and
tendering.

The Head of Income Generation, Communications and Data is responsible for developing corporate
telationships, high net worth donors, and working strategically with the CEO on statutory contracts and tenders.

We also have an online giving page and a text donate number. Aside from employees of our corporate partners,
we do not use any third parties to fundraise on our behalf.

Any voluntary regulated scheme binds none of the fundraising undertaken.

If a fundraising event is organised on behalf of YG, information on how to do this is provided on our website, but
this activity needs to be monitored. We have received no complaints regarding fundraising.

The expectation for 24/25 is to continue nurturing corporate relationships to drive unrestricted funding income,
develop the fundraisers of the future from our previous service users, and continue developing and diversifying
our streams of income.

There will also be a need to secure capital funding to allow us to contribute to the future building strategy for YG.


YOUNG GLOUCESTERSHIRE LIMITED

TRUSTEES’ REPORT (CONTINUED)(INCLUDING DIRECTORS’ REPORT)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

Financial review

Young Gloucestershire’s financial performance remained strong. The financial results for 2023/24 include
Infobuzz which was acquired by Young Gloucestershire on 28" October 2023.

Total income was £3,146,840 (2023: £2,316,692) Expenditure for the year was £2,872,268 (2023: £2,286,534);
We aim for full cost recovery wherever possible but certain projects will never be self-supporting, so we look to
diversify income streams to cover shortfalls in those activities which form an essential part of the charity's aims
and objectives.

A total of £94,561 (2023: £74,821) has been transferred from the unrestricted fund to the restricted fund in this
financial year. The total net income for the year was £309,609 (2023: £24,985). This leaves the charity with
general unrestricted funds of £941,159, designated funds of £635,525 and restricted funds of £714,779.

Reserves policy

The trustees have a policy to hold in liquid free reserves, (as net cash and readily available investments) an
approximate sum required for continuing the operation of the charity for three to six months. The trustees are of
the opinion that an appropriate level of liquid free reserves would be in the range of £380,000 - £750,000. This
would give time, in the event of a curtailment in income, for further funding to be secured.

At the year end, the charity was holding as net current assets a sum of £598,543 of which £35,009 were
restricted and so unavailable for general use. This leaves the charity with liquid free reserves of £563,534. The
charity is therefore meeting its objectives.

The long term creditor represents the mortgage and is secured on the property. For this reason, both are
excluded from liquid free reserves.

Principal funding sources
The financial statements detail the sources of funds available to the charity.

Incoming resources which warrant a separate mention are as follows:

- £201,483 through colleges for the funding of Prince's Trust Team programme.

- £991,828 from the NHS Gloucestershire Clinical Commissioning Group for the work of our mental health and
counselling services.

- £284,849 for the delivery of transitions support services from Gloucestershire County Council.

The charity has also received funding from a variety of other sources including:

Four Acre Trust

Pets Foundation

Masonic Charitable Foundation
Nationwide Building Society
The Notgrove Trust

OPCC

BBC Children In Need

ILP Tewkesbury

ILP Cotswolds

Ernest Cook

St James' Place Charitable Foundation
GCC Levelling Up

Tewkesbury Borough Council
Waite and Hayward

All of whom provide funding to enable the charity to carry out its charitable objectives.


YOUNG GLOUCESTERSHIRE LIMITED

TRUSTEES' REPORT (CONTINUED)(INCLUDING DIRECTORS’ REPORT)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

Investment policy
Young Gloucestershire investments are managed on our behalf by LGT Wealth Management LLP. The figures
below do not include Treasury Management funds.

Investments are distributed in various asset classes, the details of which are included below. The Investment
Committee sets the overall performance and ethical parameters under which our investment managers operate.

The primary objectives of our investment portfolio are to:
+ Generate long-term income.
- Maintain an appropriate balance between equities, bonds, other investments, and cash to spread and
manage risk.
The total return on our portfolio over the financial year was a positive return of 22%.

The distribution of investments as of 31st March 2024 was:

UK Corporate 7%
Oversea Corporates 26%
Global Equities 38%
North America 6%
Asia 7%
Alternatives/Cash 16%.

The trustees have declared that the charity will not directly invest in armaments, tobacco, or pornography.

Risk assessment

The trustees and staff assess on an on-going basis the significant risks to which the charity is exposed, in
particular those related to the operations and finances of the charity and to the health and safety of its employees
and the public. In doing so the board of trustees has created a risk register that brings all the risks from across
the organisation together and highlights the key risks for the organisation.

The current top risks for the organisation are:

+ Funding — the current funding environment is uncertain, there is a lot of competition for limited funding
amounts.

+ The cost-of-living crisis is causing a problem providing a competitive salary and this in turn
impact employee recruitment and retention.

+ Al introduces a whole new world of risks for staff and young people and needs to be factored into a
review of our policies.

+ Recruitment of appropriate skill sets — the youth work sector is changing and there is a reduction in
trained and skilled youth workers.

The following strategies have been put in place:

Recruitment of Appropriate Skillsets — Over recent years YG has found it needs a wider and more varied
skillsets to deliver the services we deliver. The services we deliver are reliant on the skillset of the staff delivering
these services. YG has been widening the range of qualifications it seeks and exploring the development
opportunities available to the team to ensure we can meet these needs. As the organisation is growing, we are
diversifying our skills and this is having a positive impact.

YOUNG GLOUCESTERSHIRE LIMITED

TRUSTEES' REPORT (CONTINUED)(INCLUDING DIRECTORS’ REPORT)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

Plans for future periods

Our plans for the future are to continue developing services that meet the emerging needs, themes, and trends
we see among the young people we serve. This includes developing programmes of support that continue to
wrap around a young person and their family, supporting those at risk of school exclusion, those impacted by
modern-day harms, and refugees and asylum-seeking young people.

We are also continuing to upskill and empower our workforce to be specialised youth workers, with the aim to
introduce a recognised level 3 youth work qualification.

We plan to develop and improve our systems and processes for managing data and programme delivery, which
will lead to operational efficiency and transparency across the organisation.

Structure, governance and management

The charity's registered office and registration numbers are recorded under legal and administration information.
The charity is a charitable company with no share capital and is limited by guarantee. The governing documents
of the charity are the Memorandum and Articles of Association.

The trustees, who are also the directors for the purpose of company law, and who served during the year and up
to the date of signature of the financial statements were:

Mr M. Sheridan

Mr M. Moule

Ms C, Stallard

Mr S. McKeag

Mr P. Holroyd

Ms C, O'Donoghue

Mr S. Titterton

Mr A. Mulla (Resigned 6 September 2023)
Mr G. Leon

Mr J. Tabor (Appointed 24 October 2023)
Ms S. Danson (Appointed 24 October 2023)

All trustees give their time voluntarily and receive no benefits from the charity. There were no expenses claimed
by trustees during the year.

The Board of Trustees has a wide range of specialist skills and experiences which include:

Finance

Building Surveying

Youth Work

Personnel Management
Project Management
Community Safety

Business Management
Education & Welfare

Legal

Voluntary & Community Sector

ee ey

New trustees are selected by recommendations for their experience to fill skills gaps, or through advertisement
and an open recruitment round.

New trustees are introduced to the managers and staff by the Chief Executive and spend time getting to know
the activities of each department during their induction as well as visiting programmes and projects.

None of the trustees has any beneficial interest in the company.


YOUNG GLOUCESTERSHIRE LIMITED

TRUSTEES’ REPORT (CONTINUED)(INCLUDING DIRECTORS' REPORT)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

The Board of Trustees oversees Young Gloucestershire's programmes and services in order to ensure Young
Gloucestershire meets its objectives, strategic plan and legal requirements.

The Board of Trustees is responsible for setting the strategic direction of the organisation and delegates the
implementation of this policy to the Chief Executive and managers. This delegation is kept under review through
regular board meetings. The trustees receive reports, department's performance against planned targets and
financial reporting ahead of the formal Board Meetings.

The organisation has a range of policies and procedures appropriate to the range of work, responsibilities and
legal regulations including:

+ Safeguarding

+ Health & Safety at Work
+ Equal Opportunities

« Complaints

+ Financial

+ Risk

+ Data Protection & Privacy

Organisational structure

The charity employs a CEO who manages the organisation, she is supported by the COO and senior
management team who have specific area focuses.

How decisions are made

The board of trustees delegate the day to day responsibility of operations to the CEO and senior management
team. The trustees undertake a strategic review periodically and this was completed during the financial year.
This sets the direction and parameters of the work. Trustees meet bi monthly to review progress against priorities
set and ensure the organisation is compliant. In addition finance committee meetings are held monthly.

The senior management team meet monthly to review progress and set the direction and focus to achieve the
strategy.

Remuneration policy
Young Gloucestershire has a staff salary structure, and roles are analysed against this.

The trustees each year make the decision for the whole organisation in relation to a cost of living pay rise based
on the current market situation. A cost of living pay rise was agreed in January 2024 and will be implemented for
April 2024.

The board of trustees sets the salary of the CEO and COO.

Partnerships in the wider community

Young Gloucestershire is active in numerous local county, regional and national partnerships including:
Gloucestershire County Council Youth Support Service/Prospects

Gloucester VCS Alliance

UK Youth

Young People South West

Gloucester, Tewkesbury, Cotswolds, Forest of Dean and Cheltenham ILP/ICB

Health and Wellbeing Board

Coalition for the wellbeing of children and young people.

eee we ewe

Auditor

In accordance with the company's articles, a resolution proposing that Pitt Godden & Taylor LLP be reappointed
as auditor of the company will be put at a General Meeting.

-9-

YOUNG GLOUCESTERSHIRE LIMITED

TRUSTEES' REPORT (CONTINUED)(INCLUDING DIRECTORS' REPORT)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

Disclosure of information to auditor

Each of the trustees has confirmed that there is no information of which they are aware which is relevant to the
audit, but of which the ayditor is unaware. They have further confirmed that they have taken appropriate steps to
identify such relevant formation and to establish that the auditor is aware of such information.

is approved by the Board of Trustees.

-10-

YOUNG GLOUCESTERSHIRE LIMITED

STATEMENT OF TRUSTEES’ RESPONSIBILITIES
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

The trustees, who are also the directors of Young Gloucestershire Limited for the purpose of company law, are
responsible for preparing the Trustees’ Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and
United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).

Company Law requires the trustees to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair
view of the state of affairs of the charity and of the incoming resources and application of resources, including the
income and expenditure, of the charitable company for that year.

In preparing these financial statements, the trustees are required to:

- select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;

- observe the methods and principles in the Charities SORP;

- make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and

- prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the charity
wilt continue in operation.

The trustees are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at
any time the financial position of the charity and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the
Companies Act 2006. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the charity and hence for taking
reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.

-1-

YOUNG GLOUCESTERSHIRE LIMITED

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF YOUNG GLOUCESTERSHIRE LIMITED

Opinion

We have audited the financial statements of Young Gloucestershire Limited (the ‘charity’) for the year ended 31
March 2024 which comprise the statement of financial activities, the balance sheet, the statement of cash flows and
notes to the financial statements, including significant accounting policies. The financial reporting framework that
has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including
Financial Reporting Standard 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland
(United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).

In our opinion, the financial statements:

- give a true and fair view of the state of the charitable company's affairs as at 31 March 2024 and of its
incoming resources and application of resources, including its income and expenditure, for the year then
ended;

- have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice;
and

- have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.

Basis for opinion

We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) (ISAs (UK)) and applicable
law. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor's responsibilities for the audit of
the financial statements section of our report. We are independent of the charity in accordance with the ethical
requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRC’s Ethical
Standard, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. We believe
that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.

Conclusions relating to going concern
In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the trustees' use of the going concern basis of
accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate.

Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified any material uncertainties relating to events or
conditions that, individually or collectively, may cast significant doubt on the charity's ability to continue as a going
concern for a period of at least twelve months from when the financial statements are authorised for issue.

Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the trustees with respect to going concern are described in the
relevant sections of this report.

Other information

The other information comprises the information included in the annual report other than the financial statements
and our auditor's report thereon. The trustees are responsible for the other information contained within the annual
report. Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent
otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon. Our
responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially
inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the course of the audit, or otherwise appears
to be materially misstated. If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are
required to determine whether this gives rise to a material misstatement in the financial statements themselves. If,
based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a materia! misstatement of this other information,
we are required to report that fact.

We have nothing to report in this regard.

Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of our audit:
- the information given in the trustees’ report for the financial year for which the financial statements are

prepared, which includes the directors’ report prepared for the purposes of company law, is consistent with the
financial statements; and

- the directors’ report included within the trustees’ report has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal
requirements.

-12-

YOUNG GLOUCESTERSHIRE LIMITED

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT (CONTINUED)
TO THE MEMBERS OF YOUNG GLOUCESTERSHIRE LIMITED

Matters on which we are required to report by exception
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the charity and its environment obtained in the course of the
audit, we have not identified material misstatements in the directors’ report included within the trustees’ report.

We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the Companies Act 2006 requires

us to report to you if, in our opinion:

- adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received
from branches not visited by us; or

- the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or

- certain disclosures of trustees' remuneration specified by law are not made; or

- we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or

- the trustees were not entitled to prepare the financial statements in accordance with the small companies
regime and take advantage of the small companies’ exemptions in preparing the trustees’ report and from the
requirement to prepare a strategic report.

Responsibilities of trustees

As explained more fully in the statement of trustees’ responsibilities, the trustees, who are also the directors of the
charity for the purpose of company law, are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being
satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the trustees determine is necessary to
enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or
error. In preparing the financial statements, the trustees are responsible for assessing the charity's ability to
continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going
concern basis of accounting unless the trustees either intend to liquidate the charitable company or to cease
operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.

Auditor's responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor's report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance
with ISAs (UK) will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or
error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence
the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.

The extent to which our procedures are capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud, is detailed below.

Our approach to identifying and assessing the risks of material misstatement in respect of irregularities, including
fraud, and non-compliance with laws and regulations, was as follows:

+ We identified the laws and regulations relevant to the charity from discussions with the board and the finance
team. The laws that we consider may have a direct material effect on the financial statements or the operation of the
charity include the Charities Act 2011, the Companies Act 2006, employment. health and safety, and data
protection. :

+ We ensured that the audit engagement team collectively has the appropriate competence, capabilities and skills to
identify non-compliance with the applicable laws and regulations noted above.

+ We assessed the extent of compliance with these laws and regulations through enquiries with the trustees and
members of the finance committee and inspecting legal costs, and assessing any correspondence with the charity
commission over the year.

We assessed the susceptibility of the charity's financial statements to material misstatement, including obtaining an
understanding of how fraud may occur, by:

+ making enquiries of management as to where they considered there was susceptibility to fraud, and their
knowledge of any actual, suspected and alleged fraud;

* assessing and testing the internal controls in place to mitigate fraud risks and non-compliance with laws and
regulations.

-13-

YOUNG GLOUCESTERSHIRE LIMITED

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT (CONTINUED)
TO THE MEMBERS OF YOUNG GLOUCESTERSHIRE LIMITED

To address the risk of fraud through management bias and override of controls, we:

* performed analytical procedures to identify unusual or unexpected transactions;

* assessed whether judgements and assumptions made in determining the accounting estimates were indicative of
potential bias;

* reviewed a sample tested journal entries to confirm that they were genuine transactions.

In response to the risk of irregularities and non-compliance with laws and regulations, we designed procedures
which included, but were not limited to:

+ agreeing financial statement disclosures to the underlying supporting documentation;

* reviewing the minutes of meetings of the board as to actual and potential litigation and claims;

+ checking for correspondence from the Charity Commission.

There are inherent limitations in our audit procedures described above. The more removed that laws and
regulations are from financial transactions, the less likely it is that we would become aware of non-compliance.
Auditing standards also limit the audit procedures required to identify non-compliance with laws and regulations to
enquiry of the trustees and other management and the inspection of regulatory and legal correspondence, if any.

A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial
Reporting Council's website at: http:/Avww.frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This description forms part of our
auditor's report.

Use of our report

This report is made solely to the charitable company's members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16
of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the charitable company's
members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors’ report and for no other purpose. To the
fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the charitable
company and the charitable company's members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions
we have formed.

uae

Nicholas J Bishop FCCA ACA (Senior Statutory Auditor) tS [10 [2024
for and on behalf of PittGodden & Taylor LLP haeeeeeceeteteteteteteees

Chartered Accountants

Statutory Auditor Unit 3 Ambrose House
Meteor Court
Barnett Way
Barnwood
Gloucester
GL4 3GG

-14-

YOUNG GLOUCESTERSHIRE LIMITED

STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL ACTIVITIES
INCLUDING INCOME AND EXPENDITURE ACCOUNT

FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

income from:

Donations and legacies
Charitable activities

Activities for generating funds
Investments

Total income

Expenditure on:
Raising funds

Charitable activities

Total resources expended

Net gains/(losses) on investments

Net incoming/(outgoing) resources before
transfers

Gross transfers between funds

Net income/(expenditure) and net movement in funds

Fund balances at 1 April 2023

Fund balances at 31 March 2024

Unrestricted Restricted Total Total
funds funds 2024 2023
Notes £ £ £ £
3 410,290 611,506 1,021,796 597,962
4 2,064,503 - 2,064,503 1,672,968
5 35,210 - 35,210 39,516
6 20,435 4,896 25,331 6,246
2,530,438 616,402 3,146,840 2,316,692
7 235,501 91,131 326,632 242,798
8 1,859,262 686,374 2,545,636 2,043,736
2,094,763 777,505 ° 2,872,268 2,286,534

15 24,282 10,755 35,037 (5,173)
459,957 (150,348) 309,609 24,985
(94,561) 94,561 - -
365,396 (55,787) 309,609 24,985
1,211,288 770,566 1,981,854 1,956,869
1,576,684 714,779 =2,291,463 1,981,854

The statement of financial activities includes all gains and losses recognised in the year.

The statement of financial activities includes all gains and losses recognised in the year. All income and

expenditure derive from continuing activities.

The statement of financial activities also complies with the requirements for an income and expenditure account

under the Companies Act 2006.

-15-

YOUNG GLOUCESTERSHIRE LIMITED

BALANCE SHEET
AS AT 31 MARCH 2024

Fixed assets
Tangible assets
Investments

Current assets
Debtors
Cash at bank and in hand

Creditors: amounts falling due within
one year

Net current assets
Total assets less current liabilities

Creditors: amounts falling due after
more than one year

Net assets

Income funds

Restricted funds
Unrestricted funds
Designated property funds
General unrestricted funds

Company Registration No. 01547097

Notes

17
18

20

22

23

26

27

2024
£ £
1,249,793
560,444
1,810,237
484,268
1,351,199
1,835,467
(1,236,924)
598,543
2,408,780
(117,317)
2,291,463
714,779
635,525
941,159
1,576,684

2,291,463

Trustee

-16-

2023
£ £
1,208,648
474,447
1,683,095
567,785
943,515
1,511,300
(1,075,910)
435,390
2,118,485
(136,631)
1,981,854
770,566
642,162
569,126
1,211,288

1,981,854

YOUNG GLOUCESTERSHIRE LIMITED

STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS

FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

Cash flows from operating activities

Cash generated from/(absorbed by)
operations

Investing activities

Purchase of tangible fixed assets
Purchase of investments

Proceeds from disposal of investments
Investment income received

Net cash used in investing activities

Financing activities
Repayment of bank loans

Net cash used in financing activities

Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash

equivalents

Notes

32

Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year

Cash and cash equivalents at end of year

2024 2023
£ £ £ £
545,816 (293,979)
(89,000) (82,913)
(65,014) (460,980)
47,014 .
17,658 6,246
(119,342) (537,647)
(18,790) (18,162)
(18,790) (18,162)
407,684 (849,788)
943,515 1,793,303
1,351,199 943,515
on

-17-


YOUNG GLOUCESTERSHIRE LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

1

11

1.2

1.3

1.4

Accounting policies

Charity information
Young Gloucestershire Limited is a private company limited by guarantee incorporated in England and Wales.
The registered office is The Old Dock Office, Commercial Road, Gloucester, Gloucestershire, GL1 2EB.

Accounting convention

The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the charity's Memorandum and Articles of
Association, the Companies Act 2006 and “Accounting and Reporting by Charities: Statement of
Recommended Practice applicable to charities preparing their accounts in accordance with the Financial
Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland (FRS 102) (effective 1 January 2019)". The
charity is a Public Benefit Entity as defined by FRS 102.

The financial statements are prepared in sterling, which is the functional currency of the charity. Monetary
amounts in these financial statements are rounded to the nearest £.

The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, modified to include the
revaluation of certain financial instruments at fair value. The principal accounting policies adopted are set out
below.

Going concern

At the time of approving the financial statements, the trustees have a reasonable expectation that the charity
has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. Thus the trustees
continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements.

Charitable funds

Unrestricted funds are available for use at the discretion of the trustees in furtherance of their charitable
objectives.

Designated funds are funds set aside by the directors out of unrestricted general funds for specific future
purposes or projects.

Restricted funds are subject to specific conditions by donors or grantors as to how they may be used. The
purposes and uses of the restricted funds are set out in the notes to the financial statements.

Income

Income is recognised when the charity is legally entitled to it after any performance conditions have been met,
the amounts can be measured reliably, and it is probable that income will be received.

Cash donations are recognised on receipt. Other donations are recognised once the charity has been notified
of the donation, unless performance conditions require deferral of the amount. Income tax recoverable in
relation to donations received under Gift Aid or deeds of covenant is recognised at the time of the donation.

Legacies are recognised on receipt or otherwise if the charity has been notified of an impending distribution,
the amount is known, and receipt is expected. If the amount is not known, the legacy is treated as a
contingent asset.

Secondments are quantified in the Statement of Financial Activities by reference to the salary scales of the
entity providing the secondees. Gifts of assets are included in the Statement of Financial Activities at the fair
value of the donated asset at the time of donation.

-18-

YOUNG GLOUCESTERSHIRE LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

45

1.6

1.7

1.8

Accounting policies (Continued)

When donors specify that amounts given to the charity must be used in future accounting periods, the income
is deferred until those periods.

When donors impose conditions which have to be fulfilled before the charity becomes entitled to use such
income, the income is deferred and not included in incoming resources until the preconditions for use have
been met.

When donors specify that donations and grants are for particular restricted purposes, which do not amount to
preconditions regarding entitlement, this income is included in incoming resources of restricted funds when
receivable.

Grants from the Government and other agencies have been included as income from activities in furtherance
of the charity's objects on an accruals basis where these amount to a contract for services.

Expenditure
Resources expended are included in the Statement of Financial Activities on an accruals basis. Inclusive of
any VAT, that cannot be recovered.

Governance costs include those incurred in the governance of the charity and in connection with the
administration of the charity and compliance with constitutional and statutory requirements.

Support costs are those costs incurred directly in support of expenditure and have been allocated to activity
cost categories on the basis of staff time or usage per capita.

Tangible fixed assets
Tangible fixed assets are initially measured at cost and subsequently measured at cost or valuation, net of
depreciation and any impairment losses.

Depreciation is recognised so as to write off the cost or valuation of assets less their residual values over their
useful lives on the following bases:

Freehold land and buildings 50 years straight line, windows - 15 years straight line
Fixtures and fittings 5 years and 8 years straight line

Computers 4 years straight line

Motor vehicles 4 years straight line

The gain or loss arising on the disposal of-an asset is determined as the difference between the sale proceeds
and the carrying value of the asset, and is recognised in the statement of financial activities.

Fixed asset investments

Fixed asset investments are initially measured at transaction price excluding transaction costs, and are
subsequently measured at fair value at each reporting date. Changes in fair value are recognised in net
income/(expenditure) for the year. Transaction costs are expensed as incurred.

Impairment of fixed assets

At each reporting end date, the charity reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible assets to determine
whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication
exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment
loss (if any).

-19-

